engine/install/sles.md, before:

---
description: Instructions for installing Docker Engine on SLES
keywords: requirements, apt, installation, centos, rpm, sles, install, uninstall, upgrade, update, s390x, ibm-z
redirect_from:
- /ee/docker-ee/sles/
- /ee/docker-ee/suse/
- /engine/installation/linux/docker-ce/sles/
- /engine/installation/linux/docker-ee/sles/
- /engine/installation/linux/docker-ee/suse/
- /engine/installation/linux/sles/
- /engine/installation/linux/SUSE/
- /engine/installation/linux/suse/
- /engine/installation/sles/
- /engine/installation/SUSE/
- /install/linux/docker-ce/sles/
- /install/linux/docker-ee/sles/
- /install/linux/docker-ee/suse/
- /install/linux/sles/
- /installation/sles/
title: Install Docker Engine on SLES
toc_max: 4
---

To get started with Docker Engine on SLES, make sure you
[meet the prerequisites](#prerequisites), then
[install Docker](#installation-methods).

## Prerequisites

> **Note**
>
> We currently only provide packages for SLES on s390x (IBM Z). Other architectures
> are not yet supported for SLES.

### OS requirements

To install Docker Engine, you need a maintained version of SLES 15-SP3 on s390x (IBM Z).
Archived versions aren't supported or tested.

The [`SCC SUSE`](https://scc.suse.com/packages?name=SUSE%20Linux%20Enterprise%20Server&version=15.3&arch=s390x)
repositories must be enabled.

The [OpenSUSE `SELinux` repository](https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/security)
must be enabled. This repository is not added by default, and you need to enable
it for the version of SLES you are running. Run the following commands to add it:

```console
$ sles_version="$(. /etc/os-release && echo "${VERSION_ID##*.}")"
$ opensuse_repo="https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/security:SELinux/SLE_15_SP$sles_version/security:SELinux.repo"
$ sudo zypper addrepo $opensuse_repo 
```

The `overlay2` storage driver is recommended.

### Uninstall old versions

Older versions of Docker were called `docker` or `docker-engine`. If these are
installed, uninstall them, along with associated dependencies.

```console
$ sudo zypper remove docker \
                  docker-client \
                  docker-client-latest \
                  docker-common \
                  docker-latest \
                  docker-latest-logrotate \
                  docker-logrotate \
                  docker-engine \
                  runc
```

It's OK if `zypper` reports that none of these packages are installed.

The contents of `/var/lib/docker/`, including images, containers, volumes, and
networks, are preserved. The Docker Engine package is now called `docker-ce`.

## Installation methods

You can install Docker Engine in different ways, depending on your needs:

- Most users
  [set up Docker's repositories](#install-using-the-repository) and install
  from them, for ease of installation and upgrade tasks. This is the
  recommended approach.

- Some users download the RPM package and
  [install it manually](#install-from-a-package) and manage
  upgrades completely manually. This is useful in situations such as installing
  Docker on air-gapped systems with no access to the internet.

- In testing and development environments, some users choose to use automated
  [convenience scripts](#install-using-the-convenience-script) to install Docker.

### Install using the repository

Before you install Docker Engine for the first time on a new host machine, you need
to set up the Docker repository. Afterward, you can install and update Docker
from the repository.

#### Set up the repository

{% assign download-url-base = "https://download.docker.com/linux/sles" %}

Set up the repository.

```console
$ sudo zypper addrepo {{ download-url-base }}/docker-ce.repo
```

#### Install Docker Engine

1.  Install the _latest version_ of Docker Engine, containerd, and Docker Compose
    or go to the next step to install a specific version:

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
    ```

    If prompted to accept the GPG key, verify that the fingerprint matches
    `060A 61C5 1B55 8A7F 742B 77AA C52F EB6B 621E 9F35`, and if so, accept it.

    This command installs Docker, but it doesn't start Docker. It also creates a
    `docker` group, however, it doesn't add any users to the group by default.

2.  To install a _specific version_ of Docker Engine, list the available versions
    in the repo, then select and install:

    a. List and sort the versions available in your repo. This example sorts
       results by version number, highest to lowest, and is truncated:

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper search -s --match-exact docker-ce | sort -r
    
      v  | docker-ce | package | 3:20.10.8-3 | s390x | Docker CE Stable - s390x
      v  | docker-ce | package | 3:20.10.7-3 | s390x | Docker CE Stable - s390x
    ```

    The list returned depends on which repositories are enabled, and is specific
    to your version of SLES.

    b. Install a specific version by its fully qualified package name, which is
       the package name (`docker-ce`) plus the version string (fourth column),
       separated by a hyphen (`-`). For example, `docker-ce-3:20.10.8`.

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper install docker-ce-<VERSION_STRING> docker-ce-cli-<VERSION_STRING> containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
    ```

    This command installs Docker, but it doesn't start Docker. It also creates a
    `docker` group, however, it doesn't add any users to the group by default.

3.  Start Docker.

    ```console
    $ sudo systemctl start docker
    ```

4.  Verify that Docker Engine is installed correctly by running the `hello-world`
    image.

    ```console
    $ sudo docker run hello-world
    ```

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the
    container runs, it prints a message and exits.

This installs and runs Docker Engine. Use `sudo` to run Docker
commands. Continue to [Linux postinstall](linux-postinstall.md) to allow
non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration
steps.

#### Upgrade Docker Engine

To upgrade Docker Engine, follow the [installation instructions](#install-using-the-repository),
choosing the new version you want to install.

### Install from a package

If you cannot use Docker's repository to install Docker, you can download the
`.rpm` file for your release and install it manually. You need to download
a new file each time you want to upgrade Docker Engine.

1.  Go to [{{ download-url-base }}/]({{ download-url-base }}/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" }
    and choose your version of SLES. Then browse to `15/s390x/stable/Packages/`
    and download the `.rpm` file for the Docker version you want to install.

2.  Install Docker Engine, changing the path below to the path where you downloaded
    the Docker package.

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper install /path/to/package.rpm
    ```

    Docker is installed but not started. The `docker` group is created, but no
    users are added to the group.

3.  Start Docker.

    ```console
    $ sudo systemctl start docker
    ```

4.  Verify that Docker Engine is installed correctly by running the `hello-world`
    image.

    ```console
    $ sudo docker run hello-world
    ```

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the
    container runs, it prints a message and exits.

This installs and runs Docker Engine. Use `sudo` to run Docker commands.
Continue to [Post-installation steps for Linux](linux-postinstall.md) to allow
non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration
steps.

#### Upgrade Docker Engine

To upgrade Docker Engine, download the newer package file and repeat the
[installation procedure](#install-from-a-package), using `zypper -y upgrade`
instead of `zypper -y install`, and point to the new file.

{% include install-script.md %}

## Uninstall Docker Engine

1.  Uninstall the Docker Engine, CLI, Containerd, and Docker Compose packages:

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper remove docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
    ```

2.  Images, containers, volumes, or customized configuration files on your host
    are not automatically removed. To delete all images, containers, and
    volumes:

    ```console
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/docker
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/containerd
    ```

You must delete any edited configuration files manually.

## Next steps

- Continue to [Post-installation steps for Linux](linux-postinstall.md).
- Review the topics in [Develop with Docker](../../develop/index.md) to learn how to build new applications using Docker.

Commit message:

Adds SLES 15-SP4
Signed-off-by: Prabhav Thali <Prabhav.Thali1@ibm.com>

engine/install/sles.md, after:

---
description: Instructions for installing Docker Engine on SLES
keywords: requirements, apt, installation, centos, rpm, sles, install, uninstall, upgrade, update, s390x, ibm-z
redirect_from:
- /ee/docker-ee/sles/
- /ee/docker-ee/suse/
- /engine/installation/linux/docker-ce/sles/
- /engine/installation/linux/docker-ee/sles/
- /engine/installation/linux/docker-ee/suse/
- /engine/installation/linux/sles/
- /engine/installation/linux/SUSE/
- /engine/installation/linux/suse/
- /engine/installation/sles/
- /engine/installation/SUSE/
- /install/linux/docker-ce/sles/
- /install/linux/docker-ee/sles/
- /install/linux/docker-ee/suse/
- /install/linux/sles/
- /installation/sles/
title: Install Docker Engine on SLES
toc_max: 4
---

To get started with Docker Engine on SLES, make sure you
[meet the prerequisites](#prerequisites), then
[install Docker](#installation-methods).

## Prerequisites

> **Note**
>
> We currently only provide packages for SLES on s390x (IBM Z). Other architectures
> are not yet supported for SLES.

### OS requirements

To install Docker Engine, you need a maintained version of SLES 15-SP3 or SLES 15-SP4 on s390x (IBM Z).
Archived versions aren't supported or tested.

The [`SCC SUSE`](https://scc.suse.com/packages?name=SUSE%20Linux%20Enterprise%20Server&version=15.3&arch=s390x)
repositories must be enabled.

The [OpenSUSE `SELinux` repository](https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/security)
must be enabled. This repository is not added by default, and you need to enable
it for the version of SLES you are running. Run the following commands to add it:

For SLES 15-SP3,
```console
$ opensuse_repo="https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/security:SELinux/SLE_15_SP3/security:SELinux.repo" 
$ sudo zypper addrepo $opensuse_repo 
```

For SLES 15-SP4,
```console
$ opensuse_repo="https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/security:SELinux/15.4/security:SELinux.repo"
$ sudo zypper addrepo $opensuse_repo 
```

The `overlay2` storage driver is recommended.

### Uninstall old versions

Older versions of Docker were called `docker` or `docker-engine`. If these are
installed, uninstall them, along with associated dependencies.

```console
$ sudo zypper remove docker \
                  docker-client \
                  docker-client-latest \
                  docker-common \
                  docker-latest \
                  docker-latest-logrotate \
                  docker-logrotate \
                  docker-engine \
                  runc
```

It's OK if `zypper` reports that none of these packages are installed.

The contents of `/var/lib/docker/`, including images, containers, volumes, and
networks, are preserved. The Docker Engine package is now called `docker-ce`.

## Installation methods

You can install Docker Engine in different ways, depending on your needs:

- Most users
  [set up Docker's repositories](#install-using-the-repository) and install
  from them, for ease of installation and upgrade tasks. This is the
  recommended approach.

- Some users download the RPM package and
  [install it manually](#install-from-a-package) and manage
  upgrades completely manually. This is useful in situations such as installing
  Docker on air-gapped systems with no access to the internet.

- In testing and development environments, some users choose to use automated
  [convenience scripts](#install-using-the-convenience-script) to install Docker.

### Install using the repository

Before you install Docker Engine for the first time on a new host machine, you need
to set up the Docker repository. Afterward, you can install and update Docker
from the repository.

#### Set up the repository

{% assign download-url-base = "https://download.docker.com/linux/sles" %}

Set up the repository.

```console
$ sudo zypper addrepo {{ download-url-base }}/docker-ce.repo
```

#### Install Docker Engine

1.  Install the _latest version_ of Docker Engine, containerd, and Docker Compose
    or go to the next step to install a specific version:

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
    ```

    If prompted to accept the GPG key, verify that the fingerprint matches
    `060A 61C5 1B55 8A7F 742B 77AA C52F EB6B 621E 9F35`, and if so, accept it.

    This command installs Docker, but it doesn't start Docker. It also creates a
    `docker` group, however, it doesn't add any users to the group by default.

2.  To install a _specific version_ of Docker Engine, list the available versions
    in the repo, then select and install:

    a. List and sort the versions available in your repo. This example sorts
       results by version number, highest to lowest, and is truncated:

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper search -s --match-exact docker-ce | sort -r
    
      v  | docker-ce | package | 3:20.10.8-3 | s390x | Docker CE Stable - s390x
      v  | docker-ce | package | 3:20.10.7-3 | s390x | Docker CE Stable - s390x
    ```

    The list returned depends on which repositories are enabled, and is specific
    to your version of SLES.

    b. Install a specific version by its fully qualified package name, which is
       the package name (`docker-ce`) plus the version string (fourth column),
       separated by a hyphen (`-`). For example, `docker-ce-3:20.10.8`.

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper install docker-ce-<VERSION_STRING> docker-ce-cli-<VERSION_STRING> containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
    ```

    This command installs Docker, but it doesn't start Docker. It also creates a
    `docker` group, however, it doesn't add any users to the group by default.

3.  Start Docker.

    ```console
    $ sudo systemctl start docker
    ```

4.  Verify that Docker Engine is installed correctly by running the `hello-world`
    image.

    ```console
    $ sudo docker run hello-world
    ```

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the
    container runs, it prints a message and exits.

This installs and runs Docker Engine. Use `sudo` to run Docker
commands. Continue to [Linux postinstall](linux-postinstall.md) to allow
non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration
steps.

#### Upgrade Docker Engine

To upgrade Docker Engine, follow the [installation instructions](#install-using-the-repository),
choosing the new version you want to install.

### Install from a package

If you cannot use Docker's repository to install Docker, you can download the
`.rpm` file for your release and install it manually. You need to download
a new file each time you want to upgrade Docker Engine.

1.  Go to [{{ download-url-base }}/]({{ download-url-base }}/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" }
    and choose your version of SLES. Then browse to `15/s390x/stable/Packages/`
    and download the `.rpm` file for the Docker version you want to install.

2.  Install Docker Engine, changing the path below to the path where you downloaded
    the Docker package.

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper install /path/to/package.rpm
    ```

    Docker is installed but not started. The `docker` group is created, but no
    users are added to the group.

3.  Start Docker.

    ```console
    $ sudo systemctl start docker
    ```

4.  Verify that Docker Engine is installed correctly by running the `hello-world`
    image.

    ```console
    $ sudo docker run hello-world
    ```

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the
    container runs, it prints a message and exits.

This installs and runs Docker Engine. Use `sudo` to run Docker commands.
Continue to [Post-installation steps for Linux](linux-postinstall.md) to allow
non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration
steps.

#### Upgrade Docker Engine

To upgrade Docker Engine, download the newer package file and repeat the
[installation procedure](#install-from-a-package), using `zypper -y upgrade`
instead of `zypper -y install`, and point to the new file.

{% include install-script.md %}

## Uninstall Docker Engine

1.  Uninstall the Docker Engine, CLI, Containerd, and Docker Compose packages:

    ```console
    $ sudo zypper remove docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
    ```

2.  Images, containers, volumes, or customized configuration files on your host
    are not automatically removed. To delete all images, containers, and
    volumes:

    ```console
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/docker
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/containerd
    ```

You must delete any edited configuration files manually.

## Next steps

- Continue to [Post-installation steps for Linux](linux-postinstall.md).
- Review the topics in [Develop with Docker](../../develop/index.md) to learn how to build new applications using Docker.
