atomist/configure/settings.md, before:

---
title: Settings
description:
keywords:
---

This page describes the configurable settings for Atomist. Enabling any of these
settings instructs Atomist to carry out an action whenever a specific Git event
occurs. These features require that you
[install the Atomist GitHub app](/atomist/integrate/github/#connect-to-github){:
target="blank" rel="noopener" class=""} in your GitHub organization.

To view and manage these settings, go to the
[settings page](https://dso.docker.com/r/auth/policies){: target="blank"
rel="noopener" class=""} on the Atomist website.

## New image vulnerabilities

Scan container images for new critical and high-severity vulnerabilities
introduced via pull requests. New vulnerabilities display as a GitHub status
check on the pull request.

## Base image tags

Pin base image tags to digests in Dockerfiles and check for supported tags on
Docker official images. Automatically creates a pull request pinning the
Dockerfile to the latest digest for the base image tag used.

Commit message:

shift emphasis from scanning to sboms

atomist/configure/settings.md, after:

---
title: Settings
description:
keywords:
---

This page describes the configurable settings for Atomist. Enabling any of these
settings instructs Atomist to carry out an action whenever a specific Git event
occurs. These features require that you
[install the Atomist GitHub app](/atomist/integrate/github/#connect-to-github){:
target="blank" rel="noopener" class=""} in your GitHub organization.

To view and manage these settings, go to the
[settings page](https://dso.docker.com/r/auth/policies){: target="blank"
rel="noopener" class=""} on the Atomist website.

## New image vulnerabilities

Extract software bill of material from container images, and match packages with
data from vulnerability advisories. Identify when new vulnerabilities get
introduced, and display them as GitHub status check on the pull request that
introduces them.

## Base image tags

Pin base image tags to digests in Dockerfiles, and check for supported tags on
Docker official images. Automatically creates a pull request pinning the
Dockerfile to the latest digest for the base image tag used.
