man/docker-inspect.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-inspect - Return low-level information on a container or image

# SYNOPSIS
**docker inspect**
[**--help**]
[**-f**|**--format**[=*FORMAT*]]
[**--type**=*container*|*image*]
CONTAINER|IMAGE [CONTAINER|IMAGE...]

# DESCRIPTION

This displays all the information available in Docker for a given
container or image. By default, this will render all results in a JSON
array. If a format is specified, the given template will be executed for
each result.

# OPTIONS
**--help**
    Print usage statement

**-f**, **--format**=""
    Format the output using the given Go template.

**--type**=*container*|*image*
    Return JSON for specified type, permissible values are "image" or "container"

# EXAMPLES

Getting information on an image where image name conflict with the container name,
e,g both image and container are named rhel7.

    $ docker inspect --type=image rhel7
    [
    {
     "Id": "fe01a428b9d9de35d29531e9994157978e8c48fa693e1bf1d221dffbbb67b170",
     "Parent": "10acc31def5d6f249b548e01e8ffbaccfd61af0240c17315a7ad393d022c5ca2",
     ....
    }
    ]

## Getting information on a container

To get information on a container use its ID or instance name:

    $ docker inspect d2cc496561d6
    [{
    "Id": "d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47",
    "Created": "2015-06-08T16:18:02.505155285Z",
    "Path": "bash",
    "Args": [],
    "State": {
        "Running": false,
        "Paused": false,
        "Restarting": false,
        "OOMKilled": false,
        "Dead": false,
        "Pid": 0,
        "ExitCode": 0,
        "Error": "",
        "StartedAt": "2015-06-08T16:18:03.643865954Z",
        "FinishedAt": "2015-06-08T16:57:06.448552862Z"
    },
    "Image": "ded7cd95e059788f2586a51c275a4f151653779d6a7f4dad77c2bd34601d94e4",
    "NetworkSettings": {
        "Bridge": "",
        "EndpointID": "",
        "Gateway": "",
        "GlobalIPv6Address": "",
        "GlobalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
        "HairpinMode": false,
        "IPAddress": "",
        "IPPrefixLen": 0,
        "IPv6Gateway": "",
        "LinkLocalIPv6Address": "",
        "LinkLocalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "NetworkID": "",
        "Ports": null,
        "SandboxKey": "",
        "SecondaryIPAddresses": null,
        "SecondaryIPv6Addresses": null
    },
    "ResolvConfPath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/resolv.conf",
    "HostnamePath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/hostname",
    "HostsPath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/hosts",
    "LogPath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47-json.log",
    "Name": "/adoring_wozniak",
    "RestartCount": 0,
    "Driver": "devicemapper",
    "ExecDriver": "native-0.2",
    "MountLabel": "",
    "ProcessLabel": "",
    "Mounts": [
      {
        "Source": "/data",
        "Destination": "/data",
        "Mode": "ro,Z",
        "RW": false
      }
    ],
    "AppArmorProfile": "",
    "ExecIDs": null,
    "HostConfig": {
        "Binds": null,
        "ContainerIDFile": "",
        "LxcConf": [],
        "Memory": 0,
        "MemorySwap": 0,
        "CpuShares": 0,
        "CpuPeriod": 0,
        "CpusetCpus": "",
        "CpusetMems": "",
        "CpuQuota": 0,
        "BlkioWeight": 0,
        "OomKillDisable": false,
        "Privileged": false,
        "PortBindings": {},
        "Links": null,
        "PublishAllPorts": false,
        "Dns": null,
        "DnsSearch": null,
        "DnsOptions": null,
        "ExtraHosts": null,
        "VolumesFrom": null,
        "Devices": [],
        "NetworkMode": "bridge",
        "IpcMode": "",
        "PidMode": "",
        "UTSMode": "",
        "CapAdd": null,
        "CapDrop": null,
        "RestartPolicy": {
            "Name": "no",
            "MaximumRetryCount": 0
        },
        "SecurityOpt": null,
        "ReadonlyRootfs": false,
        "Ulimits": null,
        "LogConfig": {
            "Type": "json-file",
            "Config": {}
        },
        "CgroupParent": ""
    },
    "GraphDriver": {
        "Name": "devicemapper",
        "Data": {
            "DeviceId": "5",
            "DeviceName": "docker-253:1-2763198-d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47",
            "DeviceSize": "171798691840"
        }
    },
    "Config": {
        "Hostname": "d2cc496561d6",
        "Domainname": "",
        "User": "",
        "AttachStdin": true,
        "AttachStdout": true,
        "AttachStderr": true,
        "ExposedPorts": null,
        "Tty": true,
        "OpenStdin": true,
        "StdinOnce": true,
        "Env": null,
        "Cmd": [
            "bash"
        ],
        "Image": "fedora",
        "Volumes": null,
        "VolumeDriver": "",
        "WorkingDir": "",
        "Entrypoint": null,
        "NetworkDisabled": false,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "OnBuild": null,
        "Labels": {},
        "Memory": 0,
        "MemorySwap": 0,
        "CpuShares": 0,
        "Cpuset": "",
        "StopSignal": "SIGTERM"
    }
    }
    ]
## Getting the IP address of a container instance

To get the IP address of a container use:

    $ docker inspect --format='{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' d2cc496561d6
    172.17.0.2

## Listing all port bindings

One can loop over arrays and maps in the results to produce simple text
output:

    $ docker inspect --format='{{range $p, $conf := .NetworkSettings.Ports}} \
      {{$p}} -> {{(index $conf 0).HostPort}} {{end}}' d2cc496561d6
      80/tcp -> 80

You can get more information about how to write a Go template from:
https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/.

## Getting information on an image

Use an image's ID or name (e.g., repository/name[:tag]) to get information
on it.

    $ docker inspect ded7cd95e059
    [{
    "Id": "ded7cd95e059788f2586a51c275a4f151653779d6a7f4dad77c2bd34601d94e4",
    "Parent": "48ecf305d2cf7046c1f5f8fcbcd4994403173441d4a7f125b1bb0ceead9de731",
    "Comment": "",
    "Created": "2015-05-27T16:58:22.937503085Z",
    "Container": "76cf7f67d83a7a047454b33007d03e32a8f474ad332c3a03c94537edd22b312b",
    "ContainerConfig": {
        "Hostname": "76cf7f67d83a",
        "Domainname": "",
        "User": "",
        "AttachStdin": false,
        "AttachStdout": false,
        "AttachStderr": false,
        "ExposedPorts": null,
        "Tty": false,
        "OpenStdin": false,
        "StdinOnce": false,
        "Env": null,
        "Cmd": [
            "/bin/sh",
            "-c",
            "#(nop) ADD file:4be46382bcf2b095fcb9fe8334206b584eff60bb3fad8178cbd97697fcb2ea83 in /"
        ],
        "Image": "48ecf305d2cf7046c1f5f8fcbcd4994403173441d4a7f125b1bb0ceead9de731",
        "Volumes": null,
        "VolumeDriver": "",
        "WorkingDir": "",
        "Entrypoint": null,
        "NetworkDisabled": false,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "OnBuild": null,
        "Labels": {}
    },
    "DockerVersion": "1.6.0",
    "Author": "Lokesh Mandvekar \u003clsm5@fedoraproject.org\u003e",
    "Config": {
        "Hostname": "76cf7f67d83a",
        "Domainname": "",
        "User": "",
        "AttachStdin": false,
        "AttachStdout": false,
        "AttachStderr": false,
        "ExposedPorts": null,
        "Tty": false,
        "OpenStdin": false,
        "StdinOnce": false,
        "Env": null,
        "Cmd": null,
        "Image": "48ecf305d2cf7046c1f5f8fcbcd4994403173441d4a7f125b1bb0ceead9de731",
        "Volumes": null,
        "VolumeDriver": "",
        "WorkingDir": "",
        "Entrypoint": null,
        "NetworkDisabled": false,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "OnBuild": null,
        "Labels": {}
    },
    "Architecture": "amd64",
    "Os": "linux",
    "Size": 186507296,
    "VirtualSize": 186507296,
    "GraphDriver": {
        "Name": "devicemapper",
        "Data": {
            "DeviceId": "3",
            "DeviceName": "docker-253:1-2763198-ded7cd95e059788f2586a51c275a4f151653779d6a7f4dad77c2bd34601d94e4",
            "DeviceSize": "171798691840"
        }
    }
    }
    ]

# HISTORY
April 2014, originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
April 2015, updated by Qiang Huang <h.huangqiang@huawei.com>

Commit message:

various man page typos
Signed-off-by: Sally O'Malley <somalley@redhat.com>

man/docker-inspect.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-inspect - Return low-level information on a container or image

# SYNOPSIS
**docker inspect**
[**--help**]
[**-f**|**--format**[=*FORMAT*]]
[**--type**=*container*|*image*]
CONTAINER|IMAGE [CONTAINER|IMAGE...]

# DESCRIPTION

This displays all the information available in Docker for a given
container or image. By default, this will render all results in a JSON
array. If a format is specified, the given template will be executed for
each result.

# OPTIONS
**--help**
    Print usage statement

**-f**, **--format**=""
    Format the output using the given Go template.

**--type**=*container*|*image*
    Return JSON for specified type, permissible values are "image" or "container"

# EXAMPLES

Get information about an image when image name conflicts with the container name,
e.g. both image and container are named rhel7:

    $ docker inspect --type=image rhel7
    [
    {
     "Id": "fe01a428b9d9de35d29531e9994157978e8c48fa693e1bf1d221dffbbb67b170",
     "Parent": "10acc31def5d6f249b548e01e8ffbaccfd61af0240c17315a7ad393d022c5ca2",
     ....
    }
    ]

## Getting information on a container

To get information on a container use its ID or instance name:

    $ docker inspect d2cc496561d6
    [{
    "Id": "d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47",
    "Created": "2015-06-08T16:18:02.505155285Z",
    "Path": "bash",
    "Args": [],
    "State": {
        "Running": false,
        "Paused": false,
        "Restarting": false,
        "OOMKilled": false,
        "Dead": false,
        "Pid": 0,
        "ExitCode": 0,
        "Error": "",
        "StartedAt": "2015-06-08T16:18:03.643865954Z",
        "FinishedAt": "2015-06-08T16:57:06.448552862Z"
    },
    "Image": "ded7cd95e059788f2586a51c275a4f151653779d6a7f4dad77c2bd34601d94e4",
    "NetworkSettings": {
        "Bridge": "",
        "EndpointID": "",
        "Gateway": "",
        "GlobalIPv6Address": "",
        "GlobalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
        "HairpinMode": false,
        "IPAddress": "",
        "IPPrefixLen": 0,
        "IPv6Gateway": "",
        "LinkLocalIPv6Address": "",
        "LinkLocalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "NetworkID": "",
        "Ports": null,
        "SandboxKey": "",
        "SecondaryIPAddresses": null,
        "SecondaryIPv6Addresses": null
    },
    "ResolvConfPath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/resolv.conf",
    "HostnamePath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/hostname",
    "HostsPath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/hosts",
    "LogPath": "/var/lib/docker/containers/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47/d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47-json.log",
    "Name": "/adoring_wozniak",
    "RestartCount": 0,
    "Driver": "devicemapper",
    "ExecDriver": "native-0.2",
    "MountLabel": "",
    "ProcessLabel": "",
    "Mounts": [
      {
        "Source": "/data",
        "Destination": "/data",
        "Mode": "ro,Z",
        "RW": false
      }
    ],
    "AppArmorProfile": "",
    "ExecIDs": null,
    "HostConfig": {
        "Binds": null,
        "ContainerIDFile": "",
        "LxcConf": [],
        "Memory": 0,
        "MemorySwap": 0,
        "CpuShares": 0,
        "CpuPeriod": 0,
        "CpusetCpus": "",
        "CpusetMems": "",
        "CpuQuota": 0,
        "BlkioWeight": 0,
        "OomKillDisable": false,
        "Privileged": false,
        "PortBindings": {},
        "Links": null,
        "PublishAllPorts": false,
        "Dns": null,
        "DnsSearch": null,
        "DnsOptions": null,
        "ExtraHosts": null,
        "VolumesFrom": null,
        "Devices": [],
        "NetworkMode": "bridge",
        "IpcMode": "",
        "PidMode": "",
        "UTSMode": "",
        "CapAdd": null,
        "CapDrop": null,
        "RestartPolicy": {
            "Name": "no",
            "MaximumRetryCount": 0
        },
        "SecurityOpt": null,
        "ReadonlyRootfs": false,
        "Ulimits": null,
        "LogConfig": {
            "Type": "json-file",
            "Config": {}
        },
        "CgroupParent": ""
    },
    "GraphDriver": {
        "Name": "devicemapper",
        "Data": {
            "DeviceId": "5",
            "DeviceName": "docker-253:1-2763198-d2cc496561d6d520cbc0236b4ba88c362c446a7619992123f11c809cded25b47",
            "DeviceSize": "171798691840"
        }
    },
    "Config": {
        "Hostname": "d2cc496561d6",
        "Domainname": "",
        "User": "",
        "AttachStdin": true,
        "AttachStdout": true,
        "AttachStderr": true,
        "ExposedPorts": null,
        "Tty": true,
        "OpenStdin": true,
        "StdinOnce": true,
        "Env": null,
        "Cmd": [
            "bash"
        ],
        "Image": "fedora",
        "Volumes": null,
        "VolumeDriver": "",
        "WorkingDir": "",
        "Entrypoint": null,
        "NetworkDisabled": false,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "OnBuild": null,
        "Labels": {},
        "Memory": 0,
        "MemorySwap": 0,
        "CpuShares": 0,
        "Cpuset": "",
        "StopSignal": "SIGTERM"
    }
    }
    ]
## Getting the IP address of a container instance

To get the IP address of a container use:

    $ docker inspect --format='{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' d2cc496561d6
    172.17.0.2

## Listing all port bindings

One can loop over arrays and maps in the results to produce simple text
output:

    $ docker inspect --format='{{range $p, $conf := .NetworkSettings.Ports}} \
      {{$p}} -> {{(index $conf 0).HostPort}} {{end}}' d2cc496561d6
      80/tcp -> 80

You can get more information about how to write a Go template from:
https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/.

## Getting information on an image

Use an image's ID or name (e.g., repository/name[:tag]) to get information
about the image:

    $ docker inspect ded7cd95e059
    [{
    "Id": "ded7cd95e059788f2586a51c275a4f151653779d6a7f4dad77c2bd34601d94e4",
    "Parent": "48ecf305d2cf7046c1f5f8fcbcd4994403173441d4a7f125b1bb0ceead9de731",
    "Comment": "",
    "Created": "2015-05-27T16:58:22.937503085Z",
    "Container": "76cf7f67d83a7a047454b33007d03e32a8f474ad332c3a03c94537edd22b312b",
    "ContainerConfig": {
        "Hostname": "76cf7f67d83a",
        "Domainname": "",
        "User": "",
        "AttachStdin": false,
        "AttachStdout": false,
        "AttachStderr": false,
        "ExposedPorts": null,
        "Tty": false,
        "OpenStdin": false,
        "StdinOnce": false,
        "Env": null,
        "Cmd": [
            "/bin/sh",
            "-c",
            "#(nop) ADD file:4be46382bcf2b095fcb9fe8334206b584eff60bb3fad8178cbd97697fcb2ea83 in /"
        ],
        "Image": "48ecf305d2cf7046c1f5f8fcbcd4994403173441d4a7f125b1bb0ceead9de731",
        "Volumes": null,
        "VolumeDriver": "",
        "WorkingDir": "",
        "Entrypoint": null,
        "NetworkDisabled": false,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "OnBuild": null,
        "Labels": {}
    },
    "DockerVersion": "1.6.0",
    "Author": "Lokesh Mandvekar \u003clsm5@fedoraproject.org\u003e",
    "Config": {
        "Hostname": "76cf7f67d83a",
        "Domainname": "",
        "User": "",
        "AttachStdin": false,
        "AttachStdout": false,
        "AttachStderr": false,
        "ExposedPorts": null,
        "Tty": false,
        "OpenStdin": false,
        "StdinOnce": false,
        "Env": null,
        "Cmd": null,
        "Image": "48ecf305d2cf7046c1f5f8fcbcd4994403173441d4a7f125b1bb0ceead9de731",
        "Volumes": null,
        "VolumeDriver": "",
        "WorkingDir": "",
        "Entrypoint": null,
        "NetworkDisabled": false,
        "MacAddress": "",
        "OnBuild": null,
        "Labels": {}
    },
    "Architecture": "amd64",
    "Os": "linux",
    "Size": 186507296,
    "VirtualSize": 186507296,
    "GraphDriver": {
        "Name": "devicemapper",
        "Data": {
            "DeviceId": "3",
            "DeviceName": "docker-253:1-2763198-ded7cd95e059788f2586a51c275a4f151653779d6a7f4dad77c2bd34601d94e4",
            "DeviceSize": "171798691840"
        }
    }
    }
    ]

# HISTORY
April 2014, originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
April 2015, updated by Qiang Huang <h.huangqiang@huawei.com>
October 2015, updated by Sally O'Malley <somalley@redhat.com>
