man/docker-ps.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% FEBRUARY 2015
# NAME
docker-ps - List containers

# SYNOPSIS
**docker ps**
[**-a**|**--all**[=*false*]]
[**--before**[=*BEFORE*]]
[**--help**]
[**-f**|**--filter**[=*[]*]]
[**-l**|**--latest**[=*false*]]
[**-n**[=*-1*]]
[**--no-trunc**[=*false*]]
[**-q**|**--quiet**[=*false*]]
[**-s**|**--size**[=*false*]]
[**--since**[=*SINCE*]]
[**--format**=*"TEMPLATE"*]


# DESCRIPTION

List the containers in the local repository. By default this shows only
the running containers.

# OPTIONS
**-a**, **--all**=*true*|*false*
   Show all containers. Only running containers are shown by default. The default is *false*.

**--before**=""
   Show only containers created before Id or Name, including non-running containers.

**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-f**, **--filter**=[]
   Provide filter values. Valid filters:
                          exited=<int> - containers with exit code of <int>
                          label=<key> or label=<key>=<value>
                          status=(created|restarting|running|paused|exited)
                          name=<string> - container's name
                          id=<ID> - container's ID

**-l**, **--latest**=*true*|*false*
   Show only the latest created container, include non-running ones. The default is *false*.

**-n**=-1
   Show n last created containers, include non-running ones.

**--no-trunc**=*true*|*false*
   Don't truncate output. The default is *false*.

**-q**, **--quiet**=*true*|*false*
   Only display numeric IDs. The default is *false*.

**-s**, **--size**=*true*|*false*
   Display total file sizes. The default is *false*.

**--since**=""
   Show only containers created since Id or Name, include non-running ones.

**--format**=*"TEMPLATE"*
   Pretty-print containers using a Go template.
   Valid placeholders:
      .ID - Container ID
      .Image - Image ID
      .Command - Quoted command
      .CreatedAt - Time when the container was created.
      .RunningFor - Elapsed time since the container was started.
      .Ports - Exposed ports.
      .Status - Container status.
      .Size - Container disk size.
      .Labels - All labels asigned to the container.
      .Label - Value of a specific label for this container. For example `{{.Label "com.docker.swarm.cpu"}}`

# EXAMPLES
# Display all containers, including non-running

    # docker ps -a
    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                 COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS      PORTS    NAMES
    a87ecb4f327c        fedora:20             /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   20 minutes ago      Exit 0               desperate_brattain
    01946d9d34d8        vpavlin/rhel7:latest  /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   33 minutes ago      Exit 0               thirsty_bell
    c1d3b0166030        acffc0358b9e          /bin/sh -c yum -y up   2 weeks ago         Exit 1               determined_torvalds
    41d50ecd2f57        fedora:20             /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   2 weeks ago         Exit 0               drunk_pike

# Display only IDs of all containers, including non-running

    # docker ps -a -q
    a87ecb4f327c
    01946d9d34d8
    c1d3b0166030
    41d50ecd2f57

# Display only IDs of all containers that have the name `determined_torvalds`

    # docker ps -a -q --filter=name=determined_torvalds
    c1d3b0166030

# Display containers with their commands

    # docker ps --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Command}}"
    a87ecb4f327c: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA
    01946d9d34d8: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA
    c1d3b0166030: /bin/sh -c yum -y up
    41d50ecd2f57: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA

# Display containers with their labels in a table

    # docker ps --format "table {{.ID}}\t{{.Labels}}"
    CONTAINER ID        LABELS
    a87ecb4f327c        com.docker.swarm.node=ubuntu,com.docker.swarm.storage=ssd
    01946d9d34d8
    c1d3b0166030        com.docker.swarm.node=debian,com.docker.swarm.cpu=6
    41d50ecd2f57        com.docker.swarm.node=fedora,com.docker.swarm.cpu=3,com.docker.swarm.storage=ssd

# Display containers with their node label in a table

    # docker ps --format 'table {{.ID}}\t{{(.Label "com.docker.swarm.node")}}'
    CONTAINER ID        NODE
    a87ecb4f327c        ubuntu
    01946d9d34d8
    c1d3b0166030        debian
    41d50ecd2f57        fedora

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
August 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
November 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
February 2015, updated by André Martins <martins@noironetworks.com>

Commit message:

Add 'ancestor' ps filter for image
Makes it possible to filter containers by image, using
--filter=ancestor=busybox and get all the container running busybox
image and image based on busybox (to the bottom).

Signed-off-by: Vincent Demeester <vincent@sbr.pm>

man/docker-ps.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% FEBRUARY 2015
# NAME
docker-ps - List containers

# SYNOPSIS
**docker ps**
[**-a**|**--all**[=*false*]]
[**--before**[=*BEFORE*]]
[**--help**]
[**-f**|**--filter**[=*[]*]]
[**-l**|**--latest**[=*false*]]
[**-n**[=*-1*]]
[**--no-trunc**[=*false*]]
[**-q**|**--quiet**[=*false*]]
[**-s**|**--size**[=*false*]]
[**--since**[=*SINCE*]]
[**--format**=*"TEMPLATE"*]


# DESCRIPTION

List the containers in the local repository. By default this shows only
the running containers.

# OPTIONS
**-a**, **--all**=*true*|*false*
   Show all containers. Only running containers are shown by default. The default is *false*.

**--before**=""
   Show only containers created before Id or Name, including non-running containers.

**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-f**, **--filter**=[]
   Provide filter values. Valid filters:
                          exited=<int> - containers with exit code of <int>
                          label=<key> or label=<key>=<value>
                          status=(created|restarting|running|paused|exited)
                          name=<string> - container's name
                          id=<ID> - container's ID
                          ancestor=(<image-name>[:tag]|<image-id>|<image@digest>) - filters containers that were
                          created from the given image or a descendant.

**-l**, **--latest**=*true*|*false*
   Show only the latest created container, include non-running ones. The default is *false*.

**-n**=-1
   Show n last created containers, include non-running ones.

**--no-trunc**=*true*|*false*
   Don't truncate output. The default is *false*.

**-q**, **--quiet**=*true*|*false*
   Only display numeric IDs. The default is *false*.

**-s**, **--size**=*true*|*false*
   Display total file sizes. The default is *false*.

**--since**=""
   Show only containers created since Id or Name, include non-running ones.

**--format**=*"TEMPLATE"*
   Pretty-print containers using a Go template.
   Valid placeholders:
      .ID - Container ID
      .Image - Image ID
      .Command - Quoted command
      .CreatedAt - Time when the container was created.
      .RunningFor - Elapsed time since the container was started.
      .Ports - Exposed ports.
      .Status - Container status.
      .Size - Container disk size.
      .Labels - All labels asigned to the container.
      .Label - Value of a specific label for this container. For example `{{.Label "com.docker.swarm.cpu"}}`

# EXAMPLES
# Display all containers, including non-running

    # docker ps -a
    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                 COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS      PORTS    NAMES
    a87ecb4f327c        fedora:20             /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   20 minutes ago      Exit 0               desperate_brattain
    01946d9d34d8        vpavlin/rhel7:latest  /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   33 minutes ago      Exit 0               thirsty_bell
    c1d3b0166030        acffc0358b9e          /bin/sh -c yum -y up   2 weeks ago         Exit 1               determined_torvalds
    41d50ecd2f57        fedora:20             /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA   2 weeks ago         Exit 0               drunk_pike

# Display only IDs of all containers, including non-running

    # docker ps -a -q
    a87ecb4f327c
    01946d9d34d8
    c1d3b0166030
    41d50ecd2f57

# Display only IDs of all containers that have the name `determined_torvalds`

    # docker ps -a -q --filter=name=determined_torvalds
    c1d3b0166030

# Display containers with their commands

    # docker ps --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Command}}"
    a87ecb4f327c: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA
    01946d9d34d8: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA
    c1d3b0166030: /bin/sh -c yum -y up
    41d50ecd2f57: /bin/sh -c #(nop) MA

# Display containers with their labels in a table

    # docker ps --format "table {{.ID}}\t{{.Labels}}"
    CONTAINER ID        LABELS
    a87ecb4f327c        com.docker.swarm.node=ubuntu,com.docker.swarm.storage=ssd
    01946d9d34d8
    c1d3b0166030        com.docker.swarm.node=debian,com.docker.swarm.cpu=6
    41d50ecd2f57        com.docker.swarm.node=fedora,com.docker.swarm.cpu=3,com.docker.swarm.storage=ssd

# Display containers with their node label in a table

    # docker ps --format 'table {{.ID}}\t{{(.Label "com.docker.swarm.node")}}'
    CONTAINER ID        NODE
    a87ecb4f327c        ubuntu
    01946d9d34d8
    c1d3b0166030        debian
    41d50ecd2f57        fedora

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
August 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
November 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
February 2015, updated by André Martins <martins@noironetworks.com>
