docker-hub/access-tokens.md, before:

---
title: Managing access tokens
description: Learn how to create and manage your personal Docker Hub access tokens to securely push and pull images programmatically.
keywords: docker hub, hub, security, PAT, personal access token
---

Docker Hub lets you create personal access tokens as alternatives to your password. You can use tokens to access Hub images from the Docker CLI.

Using personal access tokens provides some advantages over a password:
* You can investigate the last usage of the access token and disable or delete it if you find any suspicious activity.
* When using an access token, you can't perform any admin activity on the account, including changing the password. It protects your account if your computer is compromised.

>**Important**
>
> Treat access tokens like your password and keep them secret. Store your
> tokens securely (for example, in a credential manager).
{: .important}

Access tokens are valuable for building integrations, as you can issue
multiple tokens &ndash; one for each integration &ndash; and revoke them at
any time.

   >**Note**
   >
   > If you have [two-factor authentication (2FA)](2fa/index.md) enabled on
   > your account, you must create at least one personal access token. Otherwise,
   > you will be unable to log in to your account from the Docker CLI.


## Create an access token

You can create as many tokens as you need.

1. Log in to [hub.docker.com](https://hub.docker.com){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

2. Click on your username in the top right corner and select **[Account Settings](https://hub.docker.com/settings/general)**.

3. Select **[Security](https://hub.docker.com/settings/security) > New Access Token**.

4. Add a description for your token. Use something that indicates where
the token will be used, or set a purpose for the token.
You can view the following access permissions from the drop-down:

      ![PAT Menu](images/hub-create-token.png){:width="700px"}

5. The table below lists the tokens available in each subscription:

    | Feature   | Personal | Pro | Team | Business |
    | --------------------- | ---- | ----- | ----- |----- |
    | Personal Access Tokens (read, write, delete scope only)*    |  x |   x  |   x  |   x  |
    | Scoped Personal Access Tokens  |      | x   |   x   |   x  |
    | Unlimited Personal Access Tokens   |      |       |   x   |   x  |

      >*You can create 1 access token as part of the Docker Personal tier, 5 tokens as part of Docker Pro, and Unlimited tokens as part of Docker Team and Business tier.
      For more information, see [Docker Pricing](https://www.docker.com/pricing?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs_driven_upgrade){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

5. Copy the token that appears on the screen and save it. You will not be able to retrieve the token once you close this prompt.

      ![Copy Token](images/hub-copy-token.png){:width="700px"}

## Use an access token

You can use an access token anywhere that requires your Docker Hub
password.

When logging in from your Docker CLI client (`docker login --username <username>`), omit the password in the login command. Instead, enter your token when asked for a password.

> **Note**
>
> If you have [two-factor authentication (2FA)](2fa/index.md) enabled, you must
> use a personal access token when logging in from the Docker CLI. 2FA is an
> optional, but more secure method of authentication.

## Modify existing tokens

You can rename, activate, deactivate, or delete a token as needed.

1. Access your tokens under **[Account Settings > Security](https://hub.docker.com/settings/security){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}**.

2. Select a token and click **Delete** or **Edit**, or use the menu on
the far right of a token row to bring up the edit screen. You can also
select multiple tokens to delete at once.

      ![Delete or Edit](images/hub-delete-edit-token.png){:width="700px"}

   > **Note**
   >
   > You can also view the number of tokens that are activated and deactivated in the toolbar.

      ![Modify Token](images/hub-edit-token.png){:width="700px"}

Docker provides a [Docker Hub CLI](https://github.com/docker/hub-tool#readme){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} tool (currently experimental) and an API that allows you to interact with Docker Hub. Browse through the [Docker Hub API](/docker-hub/api/latest/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} documentation to explore the supported endpoints.

Commit message:

access-tokens: markdown touch-ups, and some copy edits
- wrap lines to ~80 characters
- indent second lines for bullets to make them look slightly
  more as bullet-lists (also when looking at the source)
- Split the "Modify existing tokens" into three steps. Doing so,
  we could include the "You can also view the number of tokens
  that are activated and deactivated in the toolbar." note as
  regular text. The bullet already had 2 images _and_ a note,
  which made it a bit "cluttered"
- Added a step to "save" the changes. It's trivial, but felt
  like it made the topic "finished".
- Changed the mention of the "Docker Hub CLI and API" to a
  note, so that it's standing out a bit more, and somewhat
  clearer that it's not really part of the instructions.

Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>

docker-hub/access-tokens.md, after:

---
title: Managing access tokens
description: Learn how to create and manage your personal Docker Hub access tokens to securely push and pull images programmatically.
keywords: docker hub, hub, security, PAT, personal access token
---

Docker Hub lets you create personal access tokens as alternatives to your password.
You can use tokens to access Hub images from the Docker CLI.

Using personal access tokens provides some advantages over a password:

* You can investigate the last usage of the access token and disable or delete
  it if you find any suspicious activity.
* When using an access token, you can't perform any admin activity on the account,
  including changing the password. It protects your account if your computer is compromised.

>**Important**
>
> Treat access tokens like your password and keep them secret. Store your
> tokens securely (for example, in a credential manager).
{: .important}

Access tokens are valuable for building integrations, as you can issue
multiple tokens &ndash; one for each integration &ndash; and revoke them at
any time.

   >**Note**
   >
   > If you have [two-factor authentication (2FA)](2fa/index.md) enabled on
   > your account, you must create at least one personal access token. Otherwise,
   > you will be unable to log in to your account from the Docker CLI.


## Create an access token

You can create as many tokens as you need.

1. Log in to [hub.docker.com](https://hub.docker.com){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

2. Click on your username in the top right corner and select **[Account Settings](https://hub.docker.com/settings/general)**.

3. Select **[Security](https://hub.docker.com/settings/security) > New Access Token**.

4. Add a description for your token. Use something that indicates where the token
   will be used, or set a purpose for the token. You can view the following access
   permissions from the drop-down:

      ![PAT Menu](images/hub-create-token.png){:width="700px"}

5. The table below lists the tokens available in each subscription:

    | Feature   | Personal | Pro | Team | Business |
    | --------------------- | ---- | ----- | ----- |----- |
    | Personal Access Tokens (read, write, delete scope only)*    |  x |   x  |   x  |   x  |
    | Scoped Personal Access Tokens  |      | x   |   x   |   x  |
    | Unlimited Personal Access Tokens   |      |       |   x   |   x  |

      >*You can create 1 access token as part of the Docker Personal tier, 5 tokens as part of Docker Pro, and Unlimited tokens as part of Docker Team and Business tier.
      For more information, see [Docker Pricing](https://www.docker.com/pricing?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs_driven_upgrade){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

6. Copy the token that appears on the screen and save it. You will not be able
   to retrieve the token once you close this prompt.

      ![Copy Token](images/hub-copy-token.png){:width="700px"}

## Use an access token

You can use an access token anywhere that requires your Docker Hub
password.

When logging in from your Docker CLI client (`docker login --username <username>`),
omit the password in the login command. Instead, enter your token when asked for
a password.

> **Note**
>
> If you have [two-factor authentication (2FA)](2fa/index.md) enabled, you must
> use a personal access token when logging in from the Docker CLI. 2FA is an
> optional, but more secure method of authentication.

## Modify existing tokens

You can rename, activate, deactivate, or delete a token as needed.

1. Access your tokens under **[Account Settings > Security](https://hub.docker.com/settings/security){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}**.
   This page shows an overview of all your tokens. You can also view the number
   of tokens that are activated and deactivated in the toolbar.

   ![Delete or Edit](images/hub-delete-edit-token.png){:width="700px"}

2. Select a token and click **Delete** or **Edit**, or use the menu on
   the far right of a token row to bring up the edit screen. You can also
   select multiple tokens to delete at once.

      ![Modify Token](images/hub-edit-token.png){:width="700px"}

3. After modifying the token, click the **Save** button to save your changes.

> **Tip: Docker Hub CLI and API**
>
> Docker provides a [Docker Hub CLI](https://github.com/docker/hub-tool#readme){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
> tool (currently experimental) and an API that allows you to interact with Docker
> Hub. Browse through the [Docker Hub API](/docker-hub/api/latest/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
> documentation to explore the supported endpoints.
