desktop/extensions/settings-feedback.md, before:

---
description: Extensions
keywords: Docker Extensions, Docker Desktop, Linux, Mac, Windows, feedback
title: Settings and feedback
---

## Settings

### Enable or disable extensions available in the Marketplace

Docker Extensions is switched on by default. To change your settings:

1. Navigate to  **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
3. Next to **Enable Docker Extensions**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

### Enable or disable extensions not available in the Marketplace

You can install extensions through the Marketplace or through the Extensions SDK tools. You can choose to only allow published extensions (extensions that have been reviewed and published in the Extensions Marketplace).

1. Navigate to **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
3. Next to **Allow only extensions distributed through the Docker Marketplace**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.


### See containers created by extensions

By default, containers created by extensions are hidden from the list of containers in Docker Dashboard and the Docker CLI. To make them visible 
update your settings:

1. Navigate to  **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
3. Next to **Show Docker Extensions system containers**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

## Submit feedback
Feedback can be given to an extension author through a dedicated Slack channel or Github. To submit feedback about a particular extension:

1. Navigate to Docker Dashboard and from the menu bar select the ellipsis to the right of **Extensions**.
2. Click **Manage Extensions**.
3. Select the extension you want to provide feedback on. 
4. Scroll down to the bottom of the extension's description and, depending on the 
extension, select:
    - Support
    - Slack
    - Issues. You'll be sent to a page outside of Docker Desktop to submit your feedback.

If an extension does not provide a way for you to give feedback, contact us and we'll pass on the feedback for you. To provide feedback, select the **Give feedback** to the right of **Extensions Marketplace**.

Commit message:

Mention that enabling extension is not associated with computer resource usage by itself (from user feedback) (#15701)
Signed-off-by: Guillaume Tardif <guillaume.tardif@gmail.com>

Signed-off-by: Guillaume Tardif <guillaume.tardif@gmail.com>

desktop/extensions/settings-feedback.md, after:

---
description: Extensions
keywords: Docker Extensions, Docker Desktop, Linux, Mac, Windows, feedback
title: Settings and feedback
---

## Settings

### Enable or disable extensions available in the Marketplace

Docker Extensions is switched on by default. To change your settings:

1. Navigate to **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
3. Next to **Enable Docker Extensions**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

### Enable or disable extensions not available in the Marketplace

You can install extensions through the Marketplace or through the Extensions SDK tools. You can choose to only allow published extensions (extensions that have been reviewed and published in the Extensions Marketplace).

1. Navigate to **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
3. Next to **Allow only extensions distributed through the Docker Marketplace**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

### See containers created by extensions

By default, containers created by extensions are hidden from the list of containers in Docker Dashboard and the Docker CLI. To make them visible
update your settings:

1. Navigate to **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
3. Next to **Show Docker Extensions system containers**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

> **Note**
>
> Enabling extensions does not use computer resources (CPU / Memory) by itself.
>
> Specific extensions might use computer resources, depending on the features and implementation of each extension, but there is no reserved resources or usage cost associated with enabling extensions.

## Submit feedback

Feedback can be given to an extension author through a dedicated Slack channel or Github. To submit feedback about a particular extension:

1. Navigate to Docker Dashboard and from the menu bar select the ellipsis to the right of **Extensions**.
2. Click **Manage Extensions**.
3. Select the extension you want to provide feedback on. 
4. Scroll down to the bottom of the extension's description and, depending on the 
extension, select:
    - Support
    - Slack
    - Issues. You'll be sent to a page outside of Docker Desktop to submit your feedback.

If an extension does not provide a way for you to give feedback, contact us and we'll pass on the feedback for you. To provide feedback, select the **Give feedback** to the right of **Extensions Marketplace**.
