docker-for-mac/install.md, before:

---
description: How to install Docker Desktop on Mac
keywords: mac, install, download, run, docker, local
title: Install Docker Desktop on Mac
---

Docker Desktop for Mac is the [Community](https://www.docker.com/community-edition) version of Docker for Mac.
You can download Docker Desktop for Mac from Docker Hub.

[Download from Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac/){: .button .outline-btn}

By downloading Docker Desktop, you agree to the terms of the [Docker Software End User License Agreement](https://www.docker.com/legal/docker-software-end-user-license-agreement){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} and the [Docker Data Processing Agreement](https://www.docker.com/legal/data-processing-agreement){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

## System requirements

Your Mac must meet the following requirements to successfully install Docker Desktop:

- **Mac hardware must be a 2010 or a newer model with an Intel processor**, with Intel’s hardware support for memory management unit (MMU) virtualization, including Extended Page Tables (EPT) and Unrestricted Mode. You can check to see if your machine has this support by running the following command in a terminal: `sysctl kern.hv_support`

  If your Mac supports the Hypervisor framework, the command prints `kern.hv_support: 1`.

- **macOS must be version 10.14 or newer**. That is, Mojave, Catalina, or Big Sur. We recommend upgrading to the latest version of macOS.

  If you experience any issues after upgrading your macOS to version 10.15, you must install the latest version of Docker Desktop to be compatible with this version of macOS.

  > **Note**
  >
  > Docker supports Docker Desktop on the most recent versions of macOS. That is, the current release of macOS and the previous two releases. As new major versions of macOS are made generally available, Docker stops supporting the oldest version and supports the newest version of macOS (in addition to the previous two releases). Docker Desktop currently supports macOS Mojave, macOS Catalina, and macOS Big Sur.

- At least 4 GB of RAM.

- VirtualBox prior to version 4.3.30 must not be installed as it is not compatible with Docker Desktop.

## What's included in the installer

The Docker Desktop installation includes
  [Docker Engine](../engine/index.md), Docker CLI client,
  [Docker Compose](../compose/index.md), [Notary](../notary/getting_started.md), [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/), and [Credential Helper](https://github.com/docker/docker-credential-helpers/).

## Install and run Docker Desktop on Mac

1. Double-click `Docker.dmg` to open the installer, then drag the Docker icon to
    the Applications folder.

      ![Install Docker app](images/docker-app-drag.png)

2. Double-click `Docker.app` in the Applications folder to start Docker. (In the example below, the Applications folder is in "grid" view mode.)

    ![Docker app in Hockeyapp](images/docker-app-in-apps.png)

    The Docker menu in the top status bar indicates that Docker Desktop is running, and accessible from a terminal.

      ![Whale in menu bar](images/whale-in-menu-bar.png)

    If you've just installed the app, Docker Desktop launches the onboarding tutorial. The tutorial includes a simple exercise to build an example Docker image, run it as a container, push and save the image to Docker Hub.

    ![Docker Quick Start tutorial](images/docker-tutorial-mac.png)

3. Click the Docker menu (![whale menu](images/whale-x.png){: .inline}) to see
**Preferences** and other options.

4. Select **About Docker** to verify that you have the latest version.

Congratulations! You are now successfully running Docker Desktop.

If you would like to rerun the tutorial, go to the Docker Desktop menu 
and select **Learn**.

## Automatic updates

Starting with Docker Desktop 3.0.0, updates to Docker Desktop will be available automatically as delta updates from the previous version.

When an update is available, Docker Desktop automatically downloads it to your machine and displays an icon to indicate the availability of a newer version. All you need to do now is to click **Update and restart** from the Docker menu. This installs the latest update and restarts Docker Desktop for the changes to take effect.

## Uninstall Docker Desktop

To unistall Docker Desktop from your Mac:

1. From the Docker menu, select **Troubleshoot** and then select **Uninstall**.
2. Click **Uninstall** to confirm your selection.

> **Note:** Uninstalling Docker Desktop will destroy Docker containers and images local to the machine and remove the files generated by the application.

### Save and restore data

You can use the following procedure to save and restore images and container data. For example to reset your VM disk:

1. Use `docker save -o images.tar image1 [image2 ...]` to save any images you
    want to keep. See [save](/engine/reference/commandline/save) in the Docker
    Engine command line reference.

2. Use `docker export -o myContainner1.tar container1` to export containers you
    want to keep. See [export](/engine/reference/commandline/export) in the
    Docker Engine command line reference.

3. Uninstall the current version of Docker Desktop and install a different version (Stable or Edge), or reset your VM disk.

4. Use `docker load -i images.tar` to reload previously saved images. See
    [load](/engine/reference/commandline/load) in the Docker Engine.

5. Use `docker import -i myContainer1.tar` to create a filesystem image
    corresponding to the previously exported containers. See
    [import](/engine/reference/commandline/import) in the Docker Engine.

For information on how to back up and restore data volumes, see [Backup, restore, or migrate data volumes](/storage/volumes/#backup-restore-or-migrate-data-volumes).

## Where to go next

- [Getting started](index.md) provides an overview of Docker Desktop on Mac, basic Docker command examples, how to get help or give feedback, and links to other topics about Docker Desktop on Mac.
- [Troubleshooting](troubleshoot.md) describes common problems, workarounds, how
  to run and submit diagnostics, and submit issues.
- [FAQs](../desktop/faqs.md) provide answers to frequently asked questions.
- [Release notes](release-notes.md) lists component updates, new features, and improvements associated with Docker Desktop releases.
- [Get started with Docker](/get-started/) provides a general Docker tutorial.

Commit message:

Rewrite "save and restore data" section
This started as a "fix some links", but reading the section, I found various
issues that could use some improvement. After that, I noticed that both the
Windows and Mac pages had the same content, so I moved this to a common page
instead.

Note that there's still additional information that should likely be included
(and perhaps a rewrite into "per topic" headings (containers, images, ...).

Things that are missing;

- backup/restore swarmkit configs
- backup/restore swarmkit secrets
- backup/restore CLI configuration, trust data etc.

What I did in this pull request:

- recommend pushing images to Docker Hub as the default approach to back up
  images (but kept `docker image save` as an alternative)
- recommend `docker container commit` to save containers to an image, as doing
  so preserves both the container's configuration _and_ filesystem changes.
  `docker container export` only preserves the filesystem, but all other
  configuration is lost, which makes it hard to restore a container from it.
  Using `docker container commit` (committing the container to an image) also
  allows to follow the same procedure to backup containers as for images
  (both allowing them to be pushed to a registry, or to a file).
- added some information about "wether or not" containers should be backed
  up, as it may not be needed to back up containers if all data is stored
  in volumes (best practice).
- added some warnings regarding "sensitive data" (environment variables),
  and links to making repositories private before pushing.

Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>

docker-for-mac/install.md, after:

---
description: How to install Docker Desktop on Mac
keywords: mac, install, download, run, docker, local
title: Install Docker Desktop on Mac
---

Docker Desktop for Mac is the [Community](https://www.docker.com/community-edition) version of Docker for Mac.
You can download Docker Desktop for Mac from Docker Hub.

[Download from Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac/){: .button .outline-btn}

By downloading Docker Desktop, you agree to the terms of the [Docker Software End User License Agreement](https://www.docker.com/legal/docker-software-end-user-license-agreement){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} and the [Docker Data Processing Agreement](https://www.docker.com/legal/data-processing-agreement){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

## System requirements

Your Mac must meet the following requirements to successfully install Docker Desktop:

- **Mac hardware must be a 2010 or a newer model with an Intel processor**, with Intel’s hardware support for memory management unit (MMU) virtualization, including Extended Page Tables (EPT) and Unrestricted Mode. You can check to see if your machine has this support by running the following command in a terminal: `sysctl kern.hv_support`

  If your Mac supports the Hypervisor framework, the command prints `kern.hv_support: 1`.

- **macOS must be version 10.14 or newer**. That is, Mojave, Catalina, or Big Sur. We recommend upgrading to the latest version of macOS.

  If you experience any issues after upgrading your macOS to version 10.15, you must install the latest version of Docker Desktop to be compatible with this version of macOS.

  > **Note**
  >
  > Docker supports Docker Desktop on the most recent versions of macOS. That is, the current release of macOS and the previous two releases. As new major versions of macOS are made generally available, Docker stops supporting the oldest version and supports the newest version of macOS (in addition to the previous two releases). Docker Desktop currently supports macOS Mojave, macOS Catalina, and macOS Big Sur.

- At least 4 GB of RAM.

- VirtualBox prior to version 4.3.30 must not be installed as it is not compatible with Docker Desktop.

## What's included in the installer

The Docker Desktop installation includes
  [Docker Engine](../engine/index.md), Docker CLI client,
  [Docker Compose](../compose/index.md), [Notary](../notary/getting_started.md), [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/), and [Credential Helper](https://github.com/docker/docker-credential-helpers/).

## Install and run Docker Desktop on Mac

1. Double-click `Docker.dmg` to open the installer, then drag the Docker icon to
    the Applications folder.

      ![Install Docker app](images/docker-app-drag.png)

2. Double-click `Docker.app` in the Applications folder to start Docker. (In the example below, the Applications folder is in "grid" view mode.)

    ![Docker app in Hockeyapp](images/docker-app-in-apps.png)

    The Docker menu in the top status bar indicates that Docker Desktop is running, and accessible from a terminal.

      ![Whale in menu bar](images/whale-in-menu-bar.png)

    If you've just installed the app, Docker Desktop launches the onboarding tutorial. The tutorial includes a simple exercise to build an example Docker image, run it as a container, push and save the image to Docker Hub.

    ![Docker Quick Start tutorial](images/docker-tutorial-mac.png)

3. Click the Docker menu (![whale menu](images/whale-x.png){: .inline}) to see
**Preferences** and other options.

4. Select **About Docker** to verify that you have the latest version.

Congratulations! You are now successfully running Docker Desktop.

If you would like to rerun the tutorial, go to the Docker Desktop menu 
and select **Learn**.

## Automatic updates

Starting with Docker Desktop 3.0.0, updates to Docker Desktop will be available automatically as delta updates from the previous version.

When an update is available, Docker Desktop automatically downloads it to your machine and displays an icon to indicate the availability of a newer version. All you need to do now is to click **Update and restart** from the Docker menu. This installs the latest update and restarts Docker Desktop for the changes to take effect.

## Uninstall Docker Desktop

To uninstall Docker Desktop from your Mac:

1. From the Docker menu, select **Troubleshoot** and then select **Uninstall**.
2. Click **Uninstall** to confirm your selection.

> **Important**
> 
> Uninstalling Docker Desktop destroys Docker containers, images, volumes, and
> other Docker related data local to the machine, and removes the files generated
> by the application. Refer to the [back up and restore data](../desktop/backup-and-restore.md)
> section to learn how to preserve important data before uninstalling.

## Where to go next

- [Getting started](index.md) provides an overview of Docker Desktop on Mac, basic Docker command examples, how to get help or give feedback, and links to other topics about Docker Desktop on Mac.
- [Troubleshooting](troubleshoot.md) describes common problems, workarounds, how
  to run and submit diagnostics, and submit issues.
- [FAQs](../desktop/faqs.md) provide answers to frequently asked questions.
- [Release notes](release-notes.md) lists component updates, new features, and improvements associated with Docker Desktop releases.
- [Get started with Docker](../get-started/index.md) provides a general Docker tutorial.
* [Back up and restore data](../desktop/backup-and-restore.md) provides instructions
  on backing up and restoring data related to Docker.
