adminguide.md, before:


+++
title = "Admin guide"
description = "Documentation describing administration of Docker Trusted Registry"
keywords = ["docker, documentation, about, technology, hub, registry, enterprise"]
[menu.main]
parent="smn_dhe"
weight=3
+++



# Docker Trusted Registry Administrator's Guide

This guide covers tasks and functions an administrator of Docker Trusted Registry
 will need to know about, such as reporting, logging, system management,
performance metrics, etc.
For tasks Docker Trusted Registry users need to accomplish, such as pushing and pulling
images, please look at the [User's Guide]({{< relref "userguide.md" >}}).

## Reporting

### Dashboard

![Docker Trusted Registry Dashboard</admin/metrics/>](../assets/admin-metrics.png)

The Docker Trusted Registry Dashboard displays "hardware" resource utilization and network traffic metrics for the Docker Trusted Registry host as well as for each of its contained services. The CPU and RAM usage meters at the top indicate overall resource usage for the host, while detailed time-series charts are provided below for each container providing a Docker Trusted Registry service.

In addition, if your registry is using a filesystem storage driver, you will see a usage meter indicating used and available space on the storage volume. Third-party storage back-ends are not supported, so if you are using one, this meter will not be displayed.

You can mouse-over the charts or meters to see detailed data points.

Clicking on a service name (i.e., "load_balancer", "admin_server", etc.) will
display the network, CPU, and memory (RAM) utilization data for the specified
service. See below for a
[detailed explanation of the available services](#services).

### Logs

![System Logs page</admin/logs/>](../assets/admin-logs.png)

Click "Logs" in the global nav bar at the top of page to view the logs from your Docker Trusted Registry's containers. You will see
log sections on this page for each service in your Docker Trusted Registry instance. Older or newer
logs can be loaded by scrolling up or down. See below for a
[detailed explanation of the available services](#services).

Docker Trusted Registry's log files can be found on the host in `/usr/local/etc/dtr/logs/`. The
files are limited to a maximum size of 64mb. They are rotated every two weeks,
when the aggregator sends logs to the collection server, or they are rotated if
a logfile would exceed 64mb without rotation. Log files are named `<component
name>-<timestamp at rotation>`, where the "component name" is the service it
provides (`manager`, `admin-server`, etc.).

### Usage statistics and crash reports

During normal use, Docker Trusted Registry generates usage statistics and crash reports. This
information is collected by Docker, Inc. to help us prioritize features, fix
bugs, and improve our products. Specifically, Docker, Inc. collects the
following information:

* Error logs
* Crash logs

## Emergency access to Docker Trusted Registry

If your authenticated or public access to the Docker Trusted Registry web interface has stopped
working, but your Docker Trusted Registry admin container is still running, you can add an
[ambassador container](https://docs.docker.com/articles/ambassador_pattern_linking/)
to get temporary unsecure access to it by running:

    $ docker run --rm -it --link docker_trusted_registry_admin_server:admin -p 9999:80 svendowideit/ambassador

> **Note:** This guide assumes that you are a member of the `docker` group,
> or have root privileges. Otherwise, you may need to add `sudo` to the example
> command above.

This will give you access on port `9999` on your Docker Trusted Registry server - `http://<dtr-host-ip>:9999/admin/`.

### SSH Access to host

As an extra measure of safety, make sure you have SSH access to the Docker Trusted Registry host before you start using Docker Trusted Registry.

If you are hosting Docker Trusted Registry on an EC2 host launched from the AWS Marketplace AMI, note that the user is `ec2-user`:
`/path/to/private_key/id_rsa ec2-user@<dtr-dns-entry>`.

## Services

Docker Trusted Registry runs several Docker services which are essential to its reliability and
usability. The following services are included; you can see their details by
viewing the [Docker Trusted Registry Dashboard](#dashboard) and [Logs](#logs) pages:

* `admin_server`: Used for displaying system health, performing upgrades,
configuring settings, and viewing logs.
* `load_balancer`: Used for maintaining high availability by distributing load
to each image storage service (`image_storage_X`).
* `log_aggregator`: A microservice used for aggregating logs from each of the
other services. Handles log persistence and rotation on disk.
* `image_storage_X`: Stores Docker images using the [Docker Registry HTTP API V2](http://docs.docker.com/registry/spec/api/). Typically,
multiple image storage services are used in order to provide greater uptime and
faster, more efficient resource utilization.
* `postgres`: A database service used to host authentication (LDAP) data and other datasets as needed by Docker Trusted Registry.

## Docker Trusted Registry system management

The `docker/trusted-registry` image is used to control the Docker Trusted Registry system. This
image uses the Docker socket to orchestrate the multiple services that comprise
Docker Trusted Registry.

     $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry [COMMAND])"

Supported commands are: `install`, `start`, `stop`, `restart`, `pull`, `info`,
`export-settings`, `diagnostics`, `status`, `upgrade`.

> **Note**: `sudo` is needed for `docker/trusted-registry` commands to
> ensure that the Bash script is run with full access to the Docker host.

### `install`

Install Docker Trusted Registry.

### `start`

Start Docker Trusted Registry containers that are not running.

### `stop`

Stop Docker Trusted Registry containers that are running.

### `restart`

Stop and then start the Docker Trusted Registry containers.

### `status`

Display the current running status of only the Docker Trusted Registry containers.

```
$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry status)"
INFO  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Attempting to connect to docker engine dockerHost="unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
INFO  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Running status command
docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer
    Daemon [default (unix:///var/run/docker.sock)]
        Id: 4d6abd5c39acda25e3d3ccf7cc2acf00f32c7786a7e86fb56daf7fd67584ce9f
        Created: 2015-06-16 21:52:53+00:00
        Status: Up 4 minutes
        Image: docker/trusted-registry-nginx:1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4
        Ports:
            tcp://0.0.0.0:443 -> 443
            tcp://0.0.0.0:80 -> 80
        Command:
            nginxWatcher
        Linked To:
            None

docker_trusted_registry_auth_server
    Daemon [default (unix:///var/run/docker.sock)]
        Id: 22d5c1cf988338638dd810bc8111295f71713e81338d16298028122d33eed64a
        Created: 2015-06-16 21:52:46+00:00
...
```

### `info`

Display the version and info for the Docker daemon, and version and image ID's
of Docker Trusted Registry.


```
$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry info)"
INFO  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Attempting to connect to docker engine dockerHost="unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
{
  "DockerEngine": {
    "Version": {
      "ApiVersion": "1.20",
      "Arch": "amd64",
      "GitCommit": "55bdb51",
      "GoVersion": "go1.4.2",
      "KernelVersion": "3.16.0-4-amd64",
      "Os": "linux",
      "Version": "1.6.0"
    },
    "Info": {
      "ID": "QUMM:6SGD:6ZK4:TLJD:LTX7:64Z5:WP4Y:NE3N:TY7P:Y2RR:KVGO:IWRX",
      "Containers": 15,
      "Driver": "btrfs",
      "DriverStatus": [],
      "ExecutionDriver": "native-0.2",
      "Images": 2793,
      "KernelVersion": "3.16.0-4-amd64",
      "OperatingSystem": "Debian GNU/Linux stretch/sid",
      "NCPU": 4,
      "MemTotal": 12305711104,
      "Name": "t440s",
      "Labels": null,
      "Debug": true,
      "NFd": 43,
      "NGoroutines": 85,
      "SystemTime": "2015-06-17T04:24:54.634746915+10:00",
      "NEventsListener": 1,
      "InitPath": "/usr/bin/docker",
      "InitSha1": "",
      "IndexServerAddress": "https://index.docker.io/v1/",
      "MemoryLimit": false,
      "SwapLimit": false,
      "IPv4Forwarding": true,
      "DockerRootDir": "/data/docker",
      "HttpProxy": "",
      "HttpsProxy": "",
      "NoProxy": ""
    }
  },
  "DTR": {
    "Version": "1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4",
    "GitSHA": "8a9ddb4595c3",
    "StorageDriver": "filesystem",
    "AuthDriver": "dtr",
    "ImageIDs": {
      "Garant": "59bc135c362ad7e44743800b037061976210a9cc6aec323c3ea6eb93ebb513ca",
      "Registry": "6aba58d8bbe71b14edd538a20ac98e1279577bbef461ca25fd2794dcb017c1dc",
      "AdminServer": "af4dfb1f386e3e07b612f5f59f08166ce499ef1dfc619d499a42c53c5e424acf",
      "Manager": "3abc65af8385e63d61af40a1393438d0d720e6bf2a60c1b15b7a17a2a0d8965b",
      "LogAggregator": "01da5d7ef561a251c0c63b860a95d55b602cc70347192ef34acd3b1c5bcd317f",
      "Nginx": "631537f98c8876050fae00106c8db424d03e408b27cc14b5eb1fc11abbaba03b"
    },
    "LicenseKeyID": "2Y6QPUBxoYEms6pIysneyum6SZY_QxE9v4zLF8i1wBNZ"
  }
}
```

### `diagnostics`

The `diagnostics` command is used to extract configuration and run time data
about your containers for support purposes.

The output includes the `docker inspect` output for all
containers, running and not, so please check the resulting files for passwords
and other proprietary information before sending it.

`$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry diagnostics)" > diagnostics.zip`

> **Warning:** These diagnostics files may contain secrets that you need to remove
> before passing on - such as raw container log files, Azure storage credentials, or passwords that may be
> sent to non-Docker Trusted Registry containers using the `docker run -e PASSWORD=asdf` environment variable
> options.

Stream to STDOUT a zip file containing CSDE and Docker Trusted Registry configuration, state, and log
files to help the Docker Enterprise support team:

- your Docker host's `ca-certificates.crt`
- `containers/`: the first 20 running, stopped and paused containers `docker inspect`
  information and log files.
- `dockerEngine/`: the Docker daemon's `info` and `version` output
- `dockerState/`: the Docker daemon's container states, image states, daemon log file, and daemon configuration file
- `dtrlogs/`: the Docker Trusted Registry container log files
- `manager/`: the Docker Trusted Registry `/usr/local/etc/dtr` configuration directory and manager `info` output. See the [export settings section](#export-settings) for more details.
- `sysinfo/`: Host information
- `errors.txt`: errors and warnings encountered while running diagnostics


### `export-settings`

Export the Docker Trusted Registry configuration files for backup or diagnostics use.

`$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry export-settings)" > export-settings.tar.gz`

> **Warning:** These diagnostics files may contain secrets that you need to remove
> before passing on - such as Azure storage credentials.

Stream to STDOUT a gzipped tar file containing the Docker Trusted Registry configuration files from `/usr/local/etc/dtr/`:

- `garant.yml`
- `generatedConfigs/nginx.conf`
- `generatedConfigs/stacker.yml`
- `hub.yml`
- `license.json`
- `ssl/server.pem`
- `storage.yml`

## Client Docker Daemon diagnostics

To debug client Docker daemon communication issues with Docker Trusted Registry, we also provide
a diagnostics tool to be run on the client Docker daemon.

> **Warning:** These diagnostics files may contain secrets that you need to remove
> before passing on - such as raw container log files, Azure storage credentials, or passwords that may be
> sent to non-Docker Trusted Registry containers using the `docker run -e PASSWORD=asdf` environment variable
> options.

You can download and run this tool using the following command:

> **Note:** If you supply an administrator username and password, then the
> `diagnostics` tool will also download some logs and configuration data
> from the remote Docker Trusted Registry server.

```
$ wget https://dhe.mycompany.com/admin/bin/diagnostics && chmod +x diagnostics
$ sudo ./diagnostics dhe.mycompany.com > enduserDiagnostics.zip
DTR administrator password (provide empty string if there is no admin server authentication):
WARN  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Encountered errors running diagnostics errors=[Failed to copy DTR Adminserver's exported settings into ZIP output: "Failed to read next tar header: \"archive/tar: invalid tar header\"" Failed to copy logs from DTR Adminserver into ZIP output: "Failed to read next tar header: \"archive/tar: invalid tar header\"" error running "sestatus": "exit status 127" error running "dmidecode": "exit status 127"]
```

The zip file will contain the following information:

- your local Docker host's `ca-certificates.crt`
- `containers/`: the first 20 running, stopped and paused containers `docker inspect`
  information and log files.
- `dockerEngine/`: the local Docker daemon's `info` and `version` output
- `dockerState/`: the local Docker daemon's container states, image states, log file, and daemon configuration file
- `dtr/`: Remote Docker Trusted Registry services information. This directory will only be populated if the user enters a Docker Trusted Registry "admin" username and password.
- - `dtr/logs/`: the remote Docker Trusted Registry container log files. This directory will only be populated if the user enters a Docker Trusted Registry "admin" username and password.
- - `dtr/exportedSettings/`: the Docker Trusted Registry manager container's log files and a backup of the `/usr/local/etc/dtr` Docker Trusted Registry configuration directory. See the [export settings section](#export-settings) for more details.
- `sysinfo/`: local Host information
- `errors.txt`: errors and warnings encountered while running diagnostics

### Starting and stopping Docker Trusted Registry

If you need to stop and/or start Docker Trusted Registry (for upgrading, troubleshooting, etc.), use the following commands:

`sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry stop)"`
`sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry start)"`

## Next Steps

For information on installing Docker Trusted Registry, take a look at the [Installation instructions]({{< relref "docker-trusted-registry/install.md" >}}).

Commit message:

new directory, 2 new files, 2 moved files edits for review new directory, 2 new files, 2 moved files making changes in 4 files, more to come moved 4 install docs to installguide Moving everything under install for SEO Updating the overview to index.md renamed directory edits for review fixing install cs engine instructions and making index reappear Mary did this update: fixed weight,index.md Mary fixing install opts/license moved upgrade cs engine material from install to upgrade docs
Signed-off-by: Carol Fager-Higgins <carol.fager-higgins@docker.com>

adminguide.md, after:


+++
title = "Admin guide"
description = "Documentation describing administration of Docker Trusted Registry"
keywords = ["docker, documentation, about, technology, hub, registry, enterprise"]
[menu.main]
parent="smn_dhe"
weight=4
+++



# Docker Trusted Registry Administrator's Guide

This guide explains the tasks and functions an administrator of Docker Trusted Registry needs to understand such as reporting, logging, system management,
performance metrics, optimizing the Trusted Registry file size, and deleting containers.
For tasks Docker Trusted Registry users need to accomplish, such as pushing and pulling
images, please look at the [User's Guide]({{< relref "userguide.md" >}}).

## Reporting

### Dashboard

![Docker Trusted Registry Dashboard</admin/metrics/>](../assets/admin-metrics.png)

The Docker Trusted Registry Dashboard displays "hardware" resource utilization and network traffic metrics for the Docker Trusted Registry host as well as for each of its contained services. The CPU and RAM usage meters at the top indicate overall resource usage for the host, while detailed time-series charts are provided below for each container providing a Docker Trusted Registry service.

In addition, if your registry is using a filesystem storage driver, you will see a usage meter indicating used and available space on the storage volume. Third-party storage back-ends are not supported, so if you are using one, this meter will not be displayed.

You can mouse-over the charts or meters to see detailed data points.

Clicking on a service name (i.e., "load_balancer", "admin_server", etc.) will
display the network, CPU, and memory (RAM) utilization data for the specified
service. See below for a
[detailed explanation of the available services](#services).

### Logs

![System Logs page</admin/logs/>](../assets/admin-logs.png)

Click "Logs" in the global nav bar at the top of page to view the logs from your Docker Trusted Registry's containers. You will see
log sections on this page for each service in your Docker Trusted Registry instance. Older or newer
logs can be loaded by scrolling up or down. See below for a
[detailed explanation of the available services](#services).

Docker Trusted Registry's log files can be found on the host in `/usr/local/etc/dtr/logs/`. The
files are limited to a maximum size of 64mb. They are rotated every two weeks,
when the aggregator sends logs to the collection server, or they are rotated if
a logfile would exceed 64mb without rotation. Log files are named `<component
name>-<timestamp at rotation>`, where the "component name" is the service it
provides (`manager`, `admin-server`, etc.).

### Usage statistics and crash reports

During normal use, Docker Trusted Registry generates usage statistics and crash reports. This
information is collected by Docker, Inc. to help us prioritize features, fix
bugs, and improve our products. Specifically, Docker, Inc. collects the
following information:

* Error logs
* Crash logs

## Emergency access to Docker Trusted Registry

If your authenticated or public access to the Docker Trusted Registry web interface has stopped
working, but your Docker Trusted Registry admin container is still running, you can add an
[ambassador container](https://docs.docker.com/articles/ambassador_pattern_linking/)
to get temporary unsecure access to it by running:

    $ docker run --rm -it --link docker_trusted_registry_admin_server:admin -p 9999:80 svendowideit/ambassador

> **Note:** This guide assumes that you are a member of the `docker` group,
> or have root privileges. Otherwise, you may need to add `sudo` to the example
> command above.

This will give you access on port `9999` on your Docker Trusted Registry server - `http://<dtr-host-ip>:9999/admin/`.

### SSH Access to host

As an extra measure of safety, make sure you have SSH access to the Docker Trusted Registry host before you start using Docker Trusted Registry.

If you are hosting Docker Trusted Registry on an EC2 host launched from the AWS Marketplace AMI, note that the user is `ec2-user`:
`/path/to/private_key/id_rsa ec2-user@<dtr-dns-entry>`.

## Services

Docker Trusted Registry runs several Docker services which are essential to its reliability and
usability. The following services are included; you can see their details by
viewing the [Docker Trusted Registry Dashboard](#dashboard) and [Logs](#logs) pages:

* `admin_server`: Used for displaying system health, performing upgrades,
configuring settings, and viewing logs.
* `load_balancer`: Used for maintaining high availability by distributing load
to each image storage service (`image_storage_X`).
* `log_aggregator`: A microservice used for aggregating logs from each of the
other services. Handles log persistence and rotation on disk.
* `image_storage_X`: Stores Docker images using the [Docker Registry HTTP API V2](http://docs.docker.com/registry/spec/api/). Typically,
multiple image storage services are used in order to provide greater uptime and
faster, more efficient resource utilization.
* `postgres`: A database service used to host authentication (LDAP) data and other datasets as needed by Docker Trusted Registry.

## Docker Trusted Registry system management

The `docker/trusted-registry` image is used to control the Docker Trusted Registry system. This
image uses the Docker socket to orchestrate the multiple services that comprise
Docker Trusted Registry.

     $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry [COMMAND])"

Supported commands are: `install`, `start`, `stop`, `restart`, `pull`, `info`,
`export-settings`, `diagnostics`, `status`, `upgrade`.

> **Note**: `sudo` is needed for `docker/trusted-registry` commands to
> ensure that the Bash script is run with full access to the Docker host.

### `install`

Install Docker Trusted Registry.

### `start`

Start Docker Trusted Registry containers that are not running.

### `stop`

Stop Docker Trusted Registry containers that are running.

### `restart`

Stop and then start the Docker Trusted Registry containers.

### `status`

Display the current running status of only the Docker Trusted Registry containers.

```
$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry status)"
INFO  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Attempting to connect to docker engine dockerHost="unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
INFO  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Running status command
docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer
    Daemon [default (unix:///var/run/docker.sock)]
        Id: 4d6abd5c39acda25e3d3ccf7cc2acf00f32c7786a7e86fb56daf7fd67584ce9f
        Created: 2015-06-16 21:52:53+00:00
        Status: Up 4 minutes
        Image: docker/trusted-registry-nginx:1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4
        Ports:
            tcp://0.0.0.0:443 -> 443
            tcp://0.0.0.0:80 -> 80
        Command:
            nginxWatcher
        Linked To:
            None

docker_trusted_registry_auth_server
    Daemon [default (unix:///var/run/docker.sock)]
        Id: 22d5c1cf988338638dd810bc8111295f71713e81338d16298028122d33eed64a
        Created: 2015-06-16 21:52:46+00:00
...
```

### `info`

Display the version and info for the Docker daemon, and version and image ID's
of Docker Trusted Registry.


```
$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry info)"
INFO  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Attempting to connect to docker engine dockerHost="unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
{
  "DockerEngine": {
    "Version": {
      "ApiVersion": "1.20",
      "Arch": "amd64",
      "GitCommit": "55bdb51",
      "GoVersion": "go1.4.2",
      "KernelVersion": "3.16.0-4-amd64",
      "Os": "linux",
      "Version": "1.6.0"
    },
    "Info": {
      "ID": "QUMM:6SGD:6ZK4:TLJD:LTX7:64Z5:WP4Y:NE3N:TY7P:Y2RR:KVGO:IWRX",
      "Containers": 15,
      "Driver": "btrfs",
      "DriverStatus": [],
      "ExecutionDriver": "native-0.2",
      "Images": 2793,
      "KernelVersion": "3.16.0-4-amd64",
      "OperatingSystem": "Debian GNU/Linux stretch/sid",
      "NCPU": 4,
      "MemTotal": 12305711104,
      "Name": "t440s",
      "Labels": null,
      "Debug": true,
      "NFd": 43,
      "NGoroutines": 85,
      "SystemTime": "2015-06-17T04:24:54.634746915+10:00",
      "NEventsListener": 1,
      "InitPath": "/usr/bin/docker",
      "InitSha1": "",
      "IndexServerAddress": "https://index.docker.io/v1/",
      "MemoryLimit": false,
      "SwapLimit": false,
      "IPv4Forwarding": true,
      "DockerRootDir": "/data/docker",
      "HttpProxy": "",
      "HttpsProxy": "",
      "NoProxy": ""
    }
  },
  "DTR": {
    "Version": "1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4",
    "GitSHA": "8a9ddb4595c3",
    "StorageDriver": "filesystem",
    "AuthDriver": "dtr",
    "ImageIDs": {
      "Garant": "59bc135c362ad7e44743800b037061976210a9cc6aec323c3ea6eb93ebb513ca",
      "Registry": "6aba58d8bbe71b14edd538a20ac98e1279577bbef461ca25fd2794dcb017c1dc",
      "AdminServer": "af4dfb1f386e3e07b612f5f59f08166ce499ef1dfc619d499a42c53c5e424acf",
      "Manager": "3abc65af8385e63d61af40a1393438d0d720e6bf2a60c1b15b7a17a2a0d8965b",
      "LogAggregator": "01da5d7ef561a251c0c63b860a95d55b602cc70347192ef34acd3b1c5bcd317f",
      "Nginx": "631537f98c8876050fae00106c8db424d03e408b27cc14b5eb1fc11abbaba03b"
    },
    "LicenseKeyID": "2Y6QPUBxoYEms6pIysneyum6SZY_QxE9v4zLF8i1wBNZ"
  }
}
```

### `diagnostics`

The `diagnostics` command is used to extract configuration and run time data
about your containers for support purposes.

The output includes the `docker inspect` output for all
containers, running and not, so please check the resulting files for passwords
and other proprietary information before sending it.

`$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry diagnostics)" > diagnostics.zip`

> **Warning:** These diagnostics files may contain secrets that you need to remove
> before passing on - such as raw container log files, Azure storage credentials, or passwords that may be
> sent to non-Docker Trusted Registry containers using the `docker run -e PASSWORD=asdf` environment variable
> options.

Stream to STDOUT a zip file containing CSDE and Docker Trusted Registry configuration, state, and log
files to help the Docker Enterprise support team:

- your Docker host's `ca-certificates.crt`
- `containers/`: the first 20 running, stopped and paused containers `docker inspect`
  information and log files.
- `dockerEngine/`: the Docker daemon's `info` and `version` output
- `dockerState/`: the Docker daemon's container states, image states, daemon log file, and daemon configuration file
- `dtrlogs/`: the Docker Trusted Registry container log files
- `manager/`: the Docker Trusted Registry `/usr/local/etc/dtr` configuration directory and manager `info` output. See the [export settings section](#export-settings) for more details.
- `sysinfo/`: Host information
- `errors.txt`: errors and warnings encountered while running diagnostics


### `export-settings`

Export the Docker Trusted Registry configuration files for backup or diagnostics use.

`$ sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry export-settings)" > export-settings.tar.gz`

> **Warning:** These diagnostics files may contain secrets that you need to remove
> before passing on - such as Azure storage credentials.

Stream to STDOUT a gzipped tar file containing the Docker Trusted Registry configuration files from `/usr/local/etc/dtr/`:

- `garant.yml`
- `generatedConfigs/nginx.conf`
- `generatedConfigs/stacker.yml`
- `hub.yml`
- `license.json`
- `ssl/server.pem`
- `storage.yml`

## Client Docker Daemon diagnostics

To debug client Docker daemon communication issues with Docker Trusted Registry, we also provide
a diagnostics tool to be run on the client Docker daemon.

> **Warning:** These diagnostics files may contain secrets that you need to remove
> before passing on - such as raw container log files, Azure storage credentials, or passwords that may be
> sent to non-Docker Trusted Registry containers using the `docker run -e PASSWORD=asdf` environment variable
> options.

You can download and run this tool using the following command:

> **Note:** If you supply an administrator username and password, then the
> `diagnostics` tool will also download some logs and configuration data
> from the remote Docker Trusted Registry server.

```
$ wget https://dhe.mycompany.com/admin/bin/diagnostics && chmod +x diagnostics
$ sudo ./diagnostics dhe.mycompany.com > enduserDiagnostics.zip
DTR administrator password (provide empty string if there is no admin server authentication):
WARN  [1.1.0-alpha-001472_g8a9ddb4] Encountered errors running diagnostics errors=[Failed to copy DTR Adminserver's exported settings into ZIP output: "Failed to read next tar header: \"archive/tar: invalid tar header\"" Failed to copy logs from DTR Adminserver into ZIP output: "Failed to read next tar header: \"archive/tar: invalid tar header\"" error running "sestatus": "exit status 127" error running "dmidecode": "exit status 127"]
```

The zip file will contain the following information:

- your local Docker host's `ca-certificates.crt`
- `containers/`: the first 20 running, stopped and paused containers `docker inspect`
  information and log files.
- `dockerEngine/`: the local Docker daemon's `info` and `version` output
- `dockerState/`: the local Docker daemon's container states, image states, log file, and daemon configuration file
- `dtr/`: Remote Docker Trusted Registry services information. This directory will only be populated if the user enters a Docker Trusted Registry "admin" username and password.
- - `dtr/logs/`: the remote Docker Trusted Registry container log files. This directory will only be populated if the user enters a Docker Trusted Registry "admin" username and password.
- - `dtr/exportedSettings/`: the Docker Trusted Registry manager container's log files and a backup of the `/usr/local/etc/dtr` Docker Trusted Registry configuration directory. See the [export settings section](#export-settings) for more details.
- `sysinfo/`: local Host information
- `errors.txt`: errors and warnings encountered while running diagnostics

### Starting and stopping Docker Trusted Registry

If you need to stop and/or start Docker Trusted Registry (for upgrading, troubleshooting, etc.), use the following commands:

`sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry stop)"`
`sudo bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry start)"`

## See also

* To configure for your environment, see the
[Configuration instructions]({{< relref "configuration.md" >}}).
* To use Docker Trusted Registry, see the [User guide]({{< relref "userguide.md" >}}).
* To upgrade, see the [Upgrade guide]({{< relref "upgrade.md" >}}).
* To see previous changes, see the [release notes]({{< relref "release-notes.md" >}}).
