configuration.md, before:


+++
title = "Configuration options"
description = "Configuration instructions for Docker Trusted Registry"
keywords = ["docker, documentation, about, technology, understanding, enterprise, hub,  registry"]
[menu.main]
parent="smn_dhe"
weight=10
+++



# Configuring DTR

## Overview

This page will help you properly configure Docker Trusted Registry (DTR) so it can
run in your environment.

Start with DTR loaded in your browser and click  "Settings" in the global nav
bar at the top of the page to view configuration options. You'll see menus
organizing the options for configuring:

* General Settings (ports, proxies, etc.)
* Security settings
* Storage settings
* Your DTR license
* Authentication settings

> **Note:**
> Saving changes you've made to settings may restart various services, as follows:
> * General settings: full DTR restart
> * License change: full DTR restart
> * SSL change: Nginx reload
> * Storage config: only registries restart
> * Authentication config: no restart


## General Settings

![Domain and Ports page</admin/settings#http>](../assets/admin-settings.png)

* *Domain Name*: **required** defaults to an empty string, the fully qualified domain name assigned to the DTR host.
* *HTTP Port*: defaults to 80, used as the entry point for the image storage service. To see load balancer status, you can query
http://&lt;dtr-host&gt;/load_balancer_status.
* *HTTPS Port*: defaults to 443, used as the secure entry point for the image storage service.
* *HTTP proxy*: defaults to an empty string, proxy server for HTTP requests.
* *HTTPS proxy*: defaults to an empty string, proxy server for HTTPS requests.
* *No proxy*: defaults to an empty string, proxy bypass for HTTP and HTTPS requests.
* *Upgrade checking*: enables or disables automatic checking for DTR software updates.


> **Note**: If you need DTR to re-generate a self-signed certificate at some
> point, you'll need to first delete `/usr/local/etc/dtr/ssl/server.pem`, and
> then restart the DTR containers, either by changing and saving the "Domain Name",
> or using `bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry restart)"`.


## Security

![Security settings page</admin/settings#security>](../assets/admin-settings-security.png)

* *SSL Certificate*: Used to enter the hash (string) from the SSL Certificate.
This cert must be accompanied by its private key, entered below.
* *SSL Private Key*: The hash from the private key associated with the provided
SSL Certificate (as a standard x509 key pair).

In order to run, DTR requires encrypted communications via HTTPS/SSL between (a) the DTR registry and your Docker Engine(s), and (b) between your web browser and the DTR admin server. There are a few options for setting this up:

1. You can use the self-signed certificate DTR generates by default.
2. You can generate your own certificates using a public service or your enterprise's infrastructure. See the [Generating SSL certificates](#generating-ssl-certificates) section for the options available.

If you are generating your own certificates, you can install them by following the instructions for
[Adding your own registry certificates to DTR](#adding-your-own-registry-certificates-to-dtr).

On the other hand, if you choose to use the DTR-generated certificates, or the
certificates you generate yourself are not trusted by your client Docker hosts,
you will need to do one of the following:

* [Install a registry certificate on all of your client Docker daemons](#installing-registry-certificates-on-client-docker-daemons),

* Set your [client Docker daemons to run with an unconfirmed connection to the registry](#if-you-can-t-install-the-certificates).

### Generating SSL certificates

There are three basic approaches to generating certificates:

1.  Most enterprises will have private key infrastructure (PKI) in place to
generate keys. Consult with your security team or whomever manages your private
key infrastructure. If you have this resource available, Docker recommends you
use it.

2. If your enterprise can't provide keys, you can use a public Certificate
Authority (CA) like "InstantSSL.com" or "RapidSSL.com" to generate a
certificate. If your certificates are generated using a globally trusted
Certificate Authority, you won't need to install them on all of your
client Docker daemons.

3. Use the self-signed registry certificate generated by DTR, and install it
onto the client Docker daemon hosts as shown below.

### Adding your own Registry certificates to DTR

Whichever method you use to generate certificates, once you have them
you can set up your DTR server to use them by navigating to the "Settings" page,
going to "Security," and putting the SSL Certificate text (including all
intermediate Certificates, starting with the host) into the
"SSL Certificate" edit box, and the previously generated Private key into
the "SSL Private Key" edit box.

Click the "Save" button, and then wait for the DTR Admin site to restart and
reload. It should now be using the new certificate.

Once the "Security" page has reloaded, it will show `#` hashes instead of the
certificate text you pasted in.

If your certificate is signed by a chain of Certificate Authorities that are
already trusted by your Docker daemon servers, you can skip the "Installing
registry certificates" step below.

### Installing Registry certificates on client Docker daemons

If your certificates do not have a trusted Certificate Authority, you will need
to install them on each client Docker daemon host.

The procedure for installing the DTR certificates on each Linux distribution has
slightly different steps, as shown below.

You can test this certificate using `curl`:

```
$ curl https://dtr.yourdomain.com/v2/
curl: (60) SSL certificate problem: self signed certificate
More details here: http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html

curl performs SSL certificate verification by default, using a "bundle"
 of Certificate Authority (CA) public keys (CA certs). If the default
 bundle file isn't adequate, you can specify an alternate file
 using the --cacert option.
If this HTTPS server uses a certificate signed by a CA represented in
 the bundle, the certificate verification probably failed due to a
 problem with the certificate (it might be expired, or the name might
 not match the domain name in the URL).
If you'd like to turn off curl's verification of the certificate, use
 the -k (or --insecure) option.

$ curl --cacert /usr/local/etc/dtr/ssl/server.pem https://dtr.yourdomain.com/v2/
{"errors":[{"code":"UNAUTHORIZED","message":"access to the requested resource is not authorized","detail":null}]}
```

Continue by following the steps corresponding to your chosen OS.

#### Ubuntu/Debian

```
    $ export DOMAIN_NAME=dtr.yourdomain.com
    $ openssl s_client -connect $DOMAIN_NAME:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM | sudo tee /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/$DOMAIN_NAME.crt
    $ sudo update-ca-certificates
    Updating certificates in /etc/ssl/certs... 1 added, 0 removed; done.
    Running hooks in /etc/ca-certificates/update.d....done.
    $ sudo service docker restart
    docker stop/waiting
    docker start/running, process 29291
```

#### RHEL/Centos

```
    $ export DOMAIN_NAME=dtr.yourdomain.com
    $ openssl s_client -connect $DOMAIN_NAME:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM | sudo tee /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/$DOMAIN_NAME.crt
    $ sudo update-ca-trust
    $ sudo /bin/systemctl restart docker.service
```

#### Docker Machine and Boot2Docker

You'll need to make some persistent changes using `bootsync.sh` in your
Boot2Docker-based virtual machine (as documented in [local customization](https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/blob/master/doc/FAQ.md#local-customisation-with-persistent-partition)). To do this:

1. `docker-machine ssh dev` to enter the VM
2. `vi /var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh` (create it if it doesn't exist, or edit it if it does)

Install the CA cert (or the auto-generated cert) by adding the following to
your `/var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh`:

```
#!/bin/sh

cat /var/lib/boot2docker/server.pem >> /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```


Then get the certificate from the new DTR server using:

```
$ openssl s_client -connect dtr.yourdomain.com:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM | sudo tee -a /var/lib/boot2docker/server.pem
```

If your certificate chain is complicated, you may want to use the changes in
[Pull request 807](https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/pull/807/files)

Now you can either reboot your virtual machine, or run the following to
install the server certificate, and then restart the Docker daemon.

```
$ sudo chmod 755 /var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh
$ sudo /var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh
$ sudo /etc/init.d/docker restart`.
```

### If you can't install the certificates

If for some reason you can't install the certificate chain on a client Docker host,
or your certificates do not have a global CA, you can configure your Docker daemon to run in "insecure" mode. This is done by adding an extra flag,
`--insecure-registry host-ip|domain-name`, to your client Docker daemon startup flags.
You'll need to restart the Docker daemon for the change to take effect.

This flag means that the communications between your Docker client and the DTR
Registry server are still encrypted, but the client Docker daemon is not
confirming that the Registry connection is not being hijacked or diverted.

> **Note**: If you enter a "Domain Name" into the "Security" settings, it needs
> to be DNS resolvable on any client Docker daemons that are running in
> "insecure-registry" mode.

To set the flag, follow the directions below for your operating system.

#### Ubuntu

On Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, you customize the Docker daemon configuration with the
`/etc/defaults/docker` file.

Open or create the `/etc/defaults/docker` file, and add the
`--insecure-registry` flag to the `DOCKER_OPTS` setting (which may need to be
added or uncommented) as follows:

```
DOCKER_OPTS="--insecure-registry dtr.yourdomain.com"
```

Then restart the Docker daemon with `sudo service docker restart`.

#### RHEL/Centos

On RHEL/Centos, you customize the Docker daemon configuration with the
`/etc/sysconfig/docker` file.

Open or create the `/etc/sysconfig/docker` file, and add the
`--insecure-registry` flag to the `OPTIONS` setting (which may need to be
added or uncommented) as follows:

```
OPTIONS="--insecure-registry dtr.yourdomain.com"
```

Then restart the Docker daemon with `sudo service docker restart`.

### Docker Machine and Boot2Docker

In your Boot2Docker-based virtual machine, you customize the Docker daemon configuration with the
`/var/lib/boot2docker/profile` file.

Open or create the `/var/lib/boot2docker/profile` file, and add an `EXTRA_ARGS`
setting as follows:

```
EXTRA_ARGS="--insecure-registry dtr.yourdomain.com"
```

Then restart the Docker daemon with `sudo /etc/init.d/docker restart`.

## Image Storage Configuration

DTR image storage can be configured to use the local filesystem, or a cloud service
such as S3 or Azure.

See the [Registry 2.0 configuration](http://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/)
documentation for the full options specific to each driver.
Storage drivers can be added or customized via the [Docker Registry storage driver
API](http://docs.docker.com/registry/storagedrivers/#storage-driver-api).

![Storage settings page</admin/settings#storage>](../assets/admin-settings-storage.png)

After you select the image storage method you would like to use from the drop-down menu
near the top of the page, the UI will change to reflect the configuration settings
appropriate to the selected method.

You can either use the storage specific input boxes to configure the most common settngs
for local filesystem, S3 or Azure storage backends,
or use the full Yaml configuration file upload to have more detailed control.

You can view the current `storage.yaml` file on your DTR Docker host in the `/usr/local/etc/dtr/`
directory.

### Yaml configuration file

This file (`/usr/local/etc/dtr/storage.yml`) is
used to configure the image storage services. The editable text of the file is
displayed in the dialog box. The schema of this file is identical to that used
by the [Registry 2.0](http://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/).
* If you are using the file system driver to provide local image storage, you will need to specify a root directory which will get mounted as a sub-path of
`/var/local/dtr/image-storage`. The default value of this root directory is
`/local`, so the full path to it is `/var/local/dtr/image-storage/local`.


## Authentication

The "Authentication" settings lets DTR administrators control access
to the DTR web admin tool and to the DTR Registry.

The current authentication methods are `None`, `Managed` and `LDAP`.

> **Note**: if you have issues logging into the DTR admin web interface after changing the authentication
> settings, you may need to use the [emergency access to the DTR admin web interface]({{< relref "adminguide.md#emergency-access-to-dtr" >}}).

### No authentication

No authentication means that everyone that can access your DTR web administration
site. This is not recommended for any use other than testing.

### Managed authentication

With `Managed` authentication, the DTR admin can control users' access by setting username/password pairs.
These users must then be given "admin", "read-write" or "read-only" roles.
The "read-only" role can only pull images from the registry, "read-write" can
push and pull images, and the "admin" role can push and pull and also access
the web administration UI and metrics dashboard.

![Managed authentication settings page</admin/settings#auth>](../assets/admin-settings-authentication-basic.png)

* Choose the appropriate button to add one user, or to upload a CSV file containing username,
  password pairs, and selection boxes for "admin", "read-write", and "read-only" roles.

### LDAP authentication

Using LDAP authentication allows you to integrate your DTR registry into your
organization's existing LDAP user and authentication database.

To improve the performance of DTR's Access Control Lists, User and Group
membership data is synced into DTR's database at a configurable *LDAP Sync
Interval*. User passwords are not transferred during syncing; DTR will defer to the LDAP server to validate username/password pairs.

> **Note**: LDAP syncing does not create new user accounts or teams in DTR. It
> will only manage existing teams that have been specified to sync with LDAP.

You can configure the "userFilter" to select the set of users that are candidates
for each of the "admin", "read-write", and "read-only" roles. Unlike "Managed"
authentication, the "admin" role is separate from the registry access roles, so
LDAP users in the "admin" role won't have access to DTR images unless they are
also given the "read-write" or "read-only" role.

Because connecting to LDAP involves existing infrastructure external to DTR and
Docker, you will need to gather the details required to configure DTR for your
organization's particular LDAP implementation.

You can test that you have the correct LDAP server information by connecting to
the LDAP server from inside a Docker container running on the same server as
your DTR:

> **Note**: if the LDAP server is configured to use *StartTLS*, then you need to
> add `-Z` to the `ldapsearch` command examples below.

```
docker run --rm -it svendowideit/ldapsearch -h <LDAP Server hostname> -b <User Base DN> -D <Search User DN> -w <Search User Password>
```

Or if the LDAP server is set up to allow anonymous access (which means your
*Search User DN* and *Search User Password* settings will remain empty):

```
docker run --rm -it svendowideit/ldapsearch -h <LDAP Server hostname> -b <User Base DN> -x
```

The result of these queries should be a (very) long list - if you get an authentication error,
then the details you have are not sufficient - contact your organization's LDAP team.

The *User Login Attribute* key setting must match the field used in the LDAP server
for the user's login-name. On OpenLDAP, it's generally `uid`, and on Microsoft Active Directory
servers, it's `sAMAccountName`. The `ldapsearch` output above should allow you to
confirm which setting you need.

![LDAP authentication settings page</admin/settings#auth>](../assets/admin-settings-authentication-ldap.png)

#### LDAP Configuration options

* *LDAP Server URL*: **required** defaults to null, LDAP server URL (e.g., - ldap://example.com)
* *Use StartTLS*: defaults to unchecked, check to enable StartTLS
* *User Base DN*: **required** defaults to null, user base DN in the form (e.g., - dc=example,dc=com)
* *User Login Attribute*: **required** defaults to null, user login attribute (e.g., - uid or sAMAccountName)
* *Search User DN*: **required** defaults to null, search user DN (e.g., - domain\username)
* *Search User Password*: **required** defaults to null, search user password
* *LDAP Sync Interval*: **required** defaults to 1h0m0s, sets the interval for DTR to sync with the LDAP db.
* *User Search filters*: allows you to configure LDAP queries to limit the users that have the roles:
* * *User Filter*: This filter is used to select the objects to use as candidates for the role filters
* * *Admin Role Filter*: Combined with the "User Filter" to specify users with the
    "Admin" role - permitted to access the DTR web UI
* * *Read-Write Role Filter*: Combined with the "User Filter" to specify users permitted to
    push images to, and pull images from DTR
* * *Read-Only Role Filter*: Combined with the "User Filter" to specify users permitted to
    pull images from DTR
    
> **Note**: While the "role" filters are optional, keep in mind that if they are
> left empty, all users will get those full privileges. In other words, if the
> "admin" filter is left empty, all users will get admin privileges, if the
> "read-write" filter is empty, all users can push/pull any image, etc. (This
> behavior will be corrected in future versions.)

#### Confirm login with current configuration

You can test your current LDAP configuration before saving it by entering a test username and password and then clicking "Try Login". If the login succeeds, your configuration is working. 

## Next Steps

For information on getting support for DTR, take a look at the
[Support information]({{< relref "support.md" >}}).

Commit message:

Add the specific options added in the new 1.3 admin UI
Signed-off-by: Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>

configuration.md, after:


+++
title = "Configuration options"
description = "Configuration instructions for Docker Trusted Registry"
keywords = ["docker, documentation, about, technology, understanding, enterprise, hub,  registry"]
[menu.main]
parent="smn_dhe"
weight=10
+++



# Configuring DTR

## Overview

This page will help you properly configure Docker Trusted Registry (DTR) so it can
run in your environment.

Start with DTR loaded in your browser and click  "Settings" in the global nav
bar at the top of the page to view configuration options. You'll see menus
organizing the options for configuring:

* General Settings (ports, proxies, etc.)
* Security settings
* Storage settings
* Your DTR license
* Authentication settings

> **Note:**
> Saving changes you've made to settings may restart various services, as follows:
> * General settings: full DTR restart
> * License change: full DTR restart
> * SSL change: Nginx reload
> * Storage config: only registries restart
> * Authentication config: no restart


## General Settings

![Domain and Ports page</admin/settings#http>](../assets/admin-settings.png)

* *Domain Name*: **required** defaults to an empty string, the fully qualified domain name assigned to the DTR host.
* *HTTP Port*: defaults to 80, used as the entry point for the image storage service. To see load balancer status, you can query
http://&lt;dtr-host&gt;/load_balancer_status.
* *HTTPS Port*: defaults to 443, used as the secure entry point for the image storage service.
* *HTTP proxy*: defaults to an empty string, proxy server for HTTP requests.
* *HTTPS proxy*: defaults to an empty string, proxy server for HTTPS requests.
* *No proxy*: defaults to an empty string, proxy bypass for HTTP and HTTPS requests.
* *Upgrade checking*: enables or disables automatic checking for DTR software updates.


> **Note**: If you need DTR to re-generate a self-signed certificate at some
> point, you'll need to first delete `/usr/local/etc/dtr/ssl/server.pem`, and
> then restart the DTR containers, either by changing and saving the "Domain Name",
> or using `bash -c "$(docker run docker/trusted-registry restart)"`.


## Security

![Security settings page</admin/settings#security>](../assets/admin-settings-security.png)

* *SSL Certificate*: Used to enter the hash (string) from the SSL Certificate.
This cert must be accompanied by its private key, entered below.
* *SSL Private Key*: The hash from the private key associated with the provided
SSL Certificate (as a standard x509 key pair).

In order to run, DTR requires encrypted communications via HTTPS/SSL between (a) the DTR registry and your Docker Engine(s), and (b) between your web browser and the DTR admin server. There are a few options for setting this up:

1. You can use the self-signed certificate DTR generates by default.
2. You can generate your own certificates using a public service or your enterprise's infrastructure. See the [Generating SSL certificates](#generating-ssl-certificates) section for the options available.

If you are generating your own certificates, you can install them by following the instructions for
[Adding your own registry certificates to DTR](#adding-your-own-registry-certificates-to-dtr).

On the other hand, if you choose to use the DTR-generated certificates, or the
certificates you generate yourself are not trusted by your client Docker hosts,
you will need to do one of the following:

* [Install a registry certificate on all of your client Docker daemons](#installing-registry-certificates-on-client-docker-daemons),

* Set your [client Docker daemons to run with an unconfirmed connection to the registry](#if-you-can-t-install-the-certificates).

### Generating SSL certificates

There are three basic approaches to generating certificates:

1.  Most enterprises will have private key infrastructure (PKI) in place to
generate keys. Consult with your security team or whomever manages your private
key infrastructure. If you have this resource available, Docker recommends you
use it.

2. If your enterprise can't provide keys, you can use a public Certificate
Authority (CA) like "InstantSSL.com" or "RapidSSL.com" to generate a
certificate. If your certificates are generated using a globally trusted
Certificate Authority, you won't need to install them on all of your
client Docker daemons.

3. Use the self-signed registry certificate generated by DTR, and install it
onto the client Docker daemon hosts as shown below.

### Adding your own Registry certificates to DTR

Whichever method you use to generate certificates, once you have them
you can set up your DTR server to use them by navigating to the "Settings" page,
going to "Security," and putting the SSL Certificate text (including all
intermediate Certificates, starting with the host) into the
"SSL Certificate" edit box, and the previously generated Private key into
the "SSL Private Key" edit box.

Click the "Save" button, and then wait for the DTR Admin site to restart and
reload. It should now be using the new certificate.

Once the "Security" page has reloaded, it will show `#` hashes instead of the
certificate text you pasted in.

If your certificate is signed by a chain of Certificate Authorities that are
already trusted by your Docker daemon servers, you can skip the "Installing
registry certificates" step below.

### Installing Registry certificates on client Docker daemons

If your certificates do not have a trusted Certificate Authority, you will need
to install them on each client Docker daemon host.

The procedure for installing the DTR certificates on each Linux distribution has
slightly different steps, as shown below.

You can test this certificate using `curl`:

```
$ curl https://dtr.yourdomain.com/v2/
curl: (60) SSL certificate problem: self signed certificate
More details here: http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html

curl performs SSL certificate verification by default, using a "bundle"
 of Certificate Authority (CA) public keys (CA certs). If the default
 bundle file isn't adequate, you can specify an alternate file
 using the --cacert option.
If this HTTPS server uses a certificate signed by a CA represented in
 the bundle, the certificate verification probably failed due to a
 problem with the certificate (it might be expired, or the name might
 not match the domain name in the URL).
If you'd like to turn off curl's verification of the certificate, use
 the -k (or --insecure) option.

$ curl --cacert /usr/local/etc/dtr/ssl/server.pem https://dtr.yourdomain.com/v2/
{"errors":[{"code":"UNAUTHORIZED","message":"access to the requested resource is not authorized","detail":null}]}
```

Continue by following the steps corresponding to your chosen OS.

#### Ubuntu/Debian

```
    $ export DOMAIN_NAME=dtr.yourdomain.com
    $ openssl s_client -connect $DOMAIN_NAME:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM | sudo tee /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/$DOMAIN_NAME.crt
    $ sudo update-ca-certificates
    Updating certificates in /etc/ssl/certs... 1 added, 0 removed; done.
    Running hooks in /etc/ca-certificates/update.d....done.
    $ sudo service docker restart
    docker stop/waiting
    docker start/running, process 29291
```

#### RHEL/Centos

```
    $ export DOMAIN_NAME=dtr.yourdomain.com
    $ openssl s_client -connect $DOMAIN_NAME:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM | sudo tee /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/$DOMAIN_NAME.crt
    $ sudo update-ca-trust
    $ sudo /bin/systemctl restart docker.service
```

#### Docker Machine and Boot2Docker

You'll need to make some persistent changes using `bootsync.sh` in your
Boot2Docker-based virtual machine (as documented in [local customization](https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/blob/master/doc/FAQ.md#local-customisation-with-persistent-partition)). To do this:

1. `docker-machine ssh dev` to enter the VM
2. `vi /var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh` (create it if it doesn't exist, or edit it if it does)

Install the CA cert (or the auto-generated cert) by adding the following to
your `/var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh`:

```
#!/bin/sh

cat /var/lib/boot2docker/server.pem >> /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```


Then get the certificate from the new DTR server using:

```
$ openssl s_client -connect dtr.yourdomain.com:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM | sudo tee -a /var/lib/boot2docker/server.pem
```

If your certificate chain is complicated, you may want to use the changes in
[Pull request 807](https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/pull/807/files)

Now you can either reboot your virtual machine, or run the following to
install the server certificate, and then restart the Docker daemon.

```
$ sudo chmod 755 /var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh
$ sudo /var/lib/boot2docker/bootsync.sh
$ sudo /etc/init.d/docker restart`.
```

### If you can't install the certificates

If for some reason you can't install the certificate chain on a client Docker host,
or your certificates do not have a global CA, you can configure your Docker daemon to run in "insecure" mode. This is done by adding an extra flag,
`--insecure-registry host-ip|domain-name`, to your client Docker daemon startup flags.
You'll need to restart the Docker daemon for the change to take effect.

This flag means that the communications between your Docker client and the DTR
Registry server are still encrypted, but the client Docker daemon is not
confirming that the Registry connection is not being hijacked or diverted.

> **Note**: If you enter a "Domain Name" into the "Security" settings, it needs
> to be DNS resolvable on any client Docker daemons that are running in
> "insecure-registry" mode.

To set the flag, follow the directions below for your operating system.

#### Ubuntu

On Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, you customize the Docker daemon configuration with the
`/etc/defaults/docker` file.

Open or create the `/etc/defaults/docker` file, and add the
`--insecure-registry` flag to the `DOCKER_OPTS` setting (which may need to be
added or uncommented) as follows:

```
DOCKER_OPTS="--insecure-registry dtr.yourdomain.com"
```

Then restart the Docker daemon with `sudo service docker restart`.

#### RHEL/Centos

On RHEL/Centos, you customize the Docker daemon configuration with the
`/etc/sysconfig/docker` file.

Open or create the `/etc/sysconfig/docker` file, and add the
`--insecure-registry` flag to the `OPTIONS` setting (which may need to be
added or uncommented) as follows:

```
OPTIONS="--insecure-registry dtr.yourdomain.com"
```

Then restart the Docker daemon with `sudo service docker restart`.

### Docker Machine and Boot2Docker

In your Boot2Docker-based virtual machine, you customize the Docker daemon configuration with the
`/var/lib/boot2docker/profile` file.

Open or create the `/var/lib/boot2docker/profile` file, and add an `EXTRA_ARGS`
setting as follows:

```
EXTRA_ARGS="--insecure-registry dtr.yourdomain.com"
```

Then restart the Docker daemon with `sudo /etc/init.d/docker restart`.

## Image Storage Configuration

DTR image storage can be configured to use the local filesystem, or a cloud service
such as S3 or Azure.

See the [Registry 2.0 configuration](http://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/)
documentation for the full options specific to each driver.
Storage drivers can be added or customized via the [Docker Registry storage driver
API](http://docs.docker.com/registry/storagedrivers/#storage-driver-api).

![Storage settings page</admin/settings#storage>](../assets/admin-settings-storage.png)

After you select the image storage method you would like to use from the drop-down menu
near the top of the page, the UI will change to reflect the configuration settings
appropriate to the selected method.

You can either use the storage specific input boxes to configure the most common settngs
for local filesystem, S3 or Azure storage backends,
or use the full Yaml configuration file upload to have more detailed control.

You can view the current `storage.yaml` file on your DTR Docker host in the `/usr/local/etc/dtr/`
directory.

### Filesystem settings

The [filesystem storage backend](/registry/configuration/#filesystem)
has only one setting - the "Storage directory", the root directory in which all
registry files are stored.

### S3 settings

The [S3 storage backend](/registry/configuration/#s3) page allows you to set the
"AWS region", "Bucket name", "Access Key", and "Secret Key".

### Azure settings

The [Azure storage backend](/registry/configuration/#azure) page allows you to set
the "Account name", "Account key", "Container", and "Realm".

### Yaml configuration file

If the Quick setup options above are not sufficient to configure your Registry
options, you can upload a YAML file.

The schema of this file is identical to that used
by the [Registry 2.0](http://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/).

* If you are using the file system driver to provide local image storage, you
  will need to specify a root directory which will get mounted as a sub-path of
  `/var/local/dtr/image-storage`. The default value of this root directory is
  `/local`, so the full path to it is `/var/local/dtr/image-storage/local`.


## Authentication

The "Authentication" settings lets DTR administrators control access
to the DTR web admin tool and to the DTR Registry.

The current authentication methods are `None`, `Managed` and `LDAP`.

> **Note**: if you have issues logging into the DTR admin web interface after changing the authentication
> settings, you may need to use the [emergency access to the DTR admin web interface]({{< relref "adminguide.md#emergency-access-to-dtr" >}}).

### No authentication

No authentication means that everyone that can access your DTR web administration
site. This is not recommended for any use other than testing.

### Managed authentication

With `Managed` authentication, the DTR admin can control users' access by setting username/password pairs.
These users must then be given "admin", "read-write" or "read-only" roles.
The "read-only" role can only pull images from the registry, "read-write" can
push and pull images, and the "admin" role can push and pull and also access
the web administration UI and metrics dashboard.

![Managed authentication settings page</admin/settings#auth>](../assets/admin-settings-authentication-basic.png)

* Choose the appropriate button to add one user, or to upload a CSV file containing username,
  password pairs, and selection boxes for "admin", "read-write", and "read-only" roles.

### LDAP authentication

Using LDAP authentication allows you to integrate your DTR registry into your
organization's existing LDAP user and authentication database.

To improve the performance of DTR's Access Control Lists, User and Group
membership data is synced into DTR's database at a configurable *LDAP Sync
Interval*. User passwords are not transferred during syncing; DTR will defer to the LDAP server to validate username/password pairs.

> **Note**: LDAP syncing does not create new user accounts or teams in DTR. It
> will only manage existing teams that have been specified to sync with LDAP.

You can configure the "userFilter" to select the set of users that are candidates
for each of the "admin", "read-write", and "read-only" roles. Unlike "Managed"
authentication, the "admin" role is separate from the registry access roles, so
LDAP users in the "admin" role won't have access to DTR images unless they are
also given the "read-write" or "read-only" role.

Because connecting to LDAP involves existing infrastructure external to DTR and
Docker, you will need to gather the details required to configure DTR for your
organization's particular LDAP implementation.

You can test that you have the correct LDAP server information by connecting to
the LDAP server from inside a Docker container running on the same server as
your DTR:

> **Note**: if the LDAP server is configured to use *StartTLS*, then you need to
> add `-Z` to the `ldapsearch` command examples below.

```
docker run --rm -it svendowideit/ldapsearch -h <LDAP Server hostname> -b <User Base DN> -D <Search User DN> -w <Search User Password>
```

Or if the LDAP server is set up to allow anonymous access (which means your
*Search User DN* and *Search User Password* settings will remain empty):

```
docker run --rm -it svendowideit/ldapsearch -h <LDAP Server hostname> -b <User Base DN> -x
```

The result of these queries should be a (very) long list - if you get an authentication error,
then the details you have are not sufficient - contact your organization's LDAP team.

The *User Login Attribute* key setting must match the field used in the LDAP server
for the user's login-name. On OpenLDAP, it's generally `uid`, and on Microsoft Active Directory
servers, it's `sAMAccountName`. The `ldapsearch` output above should allow you to
confirm which setting you need.

![LDAP authentication settings page</admin/settings#auth>](../assets/admin-settings-authentication-ldap.png)

#### LDAP Configuration options

* *LDAP Server URL*: **required** defaults to null, LDAP server URL (e.g., - ldap://example.com)
* *Use StartTLS*: defaults to unchecked, check to enable StartTLS
* *User Base DN*: **required** defaults to null, user base DN in the form (e.g., - dc=example,dc=com)
* *User Login Attribute*: **required** defaults to null, user login attribute (e.g., - uid or sAMAccountName)
* *Search User DN*: **required** defaults to null, search user DN (e.g., - domain\username)
* *Search User Password*: **required** defaults to null, search user password
* *LDAP Sync Interval*: **required** defaults to 1h0m0s, sets the interval for DTR to sync with the LDAP db.
* *User Search filters*: allows you to configure LDAP queries to limit the users that have the roles:
* * *User Filter*: This filter is used to select the objects to use as candidates for the role filters
* * *Admin Role Filter*: Combined with the "User Filter" to specify users with the
    "Admin" role - permitted to access the DTR web UI
* * *Read-Write Role Filter*: Combined with the "User Filter" to specify users permitted to
    push images to, and pull images from DTR
* * *Read-Only Role Filter*: Combined with the "User Filter" to specify users permitted to
    pull images from DTR
    
> **Note**: While the "role" filters are optional, keep in mind that if they are
> left empty, all users will get those full privileges. In other words, if the
> "admin" filter is left empty, all users will get admin privileges, if the
> "read-write" filter is empty, all users can push/pull any image, etc. (This
> behavior will be corrected in future versions.)

#### Confirm login with current configuration

You can test your current LDAP configuration before saving it by entering a test username and password and then clicking "Try Login". If the login succeeds, your configuration is working. 

## Next Steps

For information on getting support for DTR, take a look at the
[Support information]({{< relref "support.md" >}}).
