install.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "Installation"
description = "Installation instructions for Docker Trusted Registry"
keywords = ["docker, documentation, about, technology, understanding, enterprise, hub,  registry"]
[menu.main]
parent="smn_dhe"
weight=4
+++
<![end-metadata]-->


# Install Docker Trusted Registry

This document describes the process of obtaining, installing, and securing
Docker Trusted Registry (DTR). DTR is installed from Docker containers. Once
installed, you will need to select a method of securing it. This doc will
explain the options you have for security and help you find the resources needed
to configure it according to your chosen method. More configuration details can
be found in the [DTR Configuration page](configuration.md).

Specifically, installation requires completion of these steps, in order:

1. Acquire a license by purchasing DTR or requesting a trial license.
2. Install the commercially supported Docker Engine.
3. Install DTR
4. Add your license to your DTR instance

 <!-- TODO > **Note:** To get your copy of DTR, visit [the Hub Subscriptions page](https://hub-beta.docker.com/subscriptions/). -->


## Licensing

In order to run DTR, you will need to acquire a license, either by purchasing
DTR or requesting a trial license. The license will be associated with your
Docker Hub account or Docker Hub organization (so if you don't have an account,
you'll need to set one up, which can be done at the same time as your license
request). To get your license or start your trial, please contact our
[sales department](mailto:sales@docker.com). Upon completion of your purchase or
request, you will receive an email with further instructions for licensing your
copy of DTR.

## Prerequisites

DTR 1.0.1 requires the following:

* Commercially supported Docker Engine 1.6.1 or later running on an
Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, RHEL 7.1 or RHEL 7.0 host. (See below for instructions on how
to install the commercially supported Docker Engine.)

> **Note:** In order to remain in compliance with your DTR support agreement,
> you **must** use the current version of commercially supported Docker Engine.
> Running the regular, open source version of Engine is **not** supported.

* Your Docker daemon needs to be listening to the Unix socket (the default) so
that it can be bind-mounted into the DTR management containers, allowing
DTR to manage itself and its updates. For this reason, your DTR host will also
need internet connectivity so it can access the updates.

* Your host also needs to have TCP ports `80` and `443` available for the DTR
container port mapping.

* You will also need the Docker Hub user-name and password used when obtaining
the DTR license (or the user-name of an administrator of the Hub organization
that obtained an Enterprise license).

## Installing the Commercially Supported Docker Engine

Since DTR is installed using Docker, the commercially supported Docker Engine
**must be** installed first. This is done with an RPM or DEB repository, which you set up using a Bash script downloaded from the 
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com).

### Download the commercially supported Docker Engine installation script

To download the commercially supported Docker Engine Bash installation script,
log in to the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) with the user-name used to
obtain your license . Once you're logged in, go to the
["Enterprise Licenses"](https://registry.hub.docker.com/account/licenses/) page
in your Hub account's "Settings" section.

Select your intended host operating system from the "Download CS Engine" drop-
down at the top right of the page and then, once the Bash setup script is
downloaded, follow the steps below appropriate for your chosen OS.

![Docker Hub Docker engine install dropdown](../assets/docker-hub-org-enterprise-license-CSDE-dropdown.png)

### RHEL 7.0/7.1 installation

First, copy the downloaded Bash setup script to your RHEL host. Next, run the
following to install commercially supported Docker Engine and its dependencies,
and then start the Docker daemon:

```
$ sudo yum update && sudo yum upgrade
$ chmod 755 docker-cs-engine-rpm.sh
$ sudo ./docker-cs-engine-rpm.sh
$ sudo yum install docker-engine-cs
$ sudo systemctl enable docker.service
$ sudo systemctl start docker.service
```

In order to simplify using Docker, you can get non-sudo access to the Docker
socket by adding your user to the `docker` group, then logging out and back in
again:

```
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
$ exit
```

> **Note**: you may need to reboot your server to update its RHEL kernel.

### Ubuntu 14.04 LTS installation

First, copy the downloaded Bash setup script to your Ubuntu host. Next, run the
following to install commercially supported Docker Engine and its dependencies:

```
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
$ sudo apt-get install -y linux-image-extra-virtual
$ sudo reboot
$ chmod 755 docker-cs-engine-deb.sh
$ sudo ./docker-cs-engine-deb.sh
$ sudo apt-get install docker-engine-cs
```
Lastly, confirm Docker is running with `sudo service docker start`.

In order to simplify using Docker, you can get non-sudo access to the Docker
socket by adding your user to the `docker` group, then logging out and back in
again:

```
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
$ exit
```

> **Note**: you may need to reboot your server to update its LTS kernel.

## Upgrading the Commercially Supported Docker Engine

CS Docker Engine 1.6.1 contains fixes to security vulnerabilities,
  and customers should upgrade to it immediately.

> **Note**: If you have CS Docker Engine 1.6.0 installed, it must be upgraded;
  however, due to compatibility issues, [DTR must be upgraded](#upgrading-docker-hub-enterprise)
  first.

The CS Docker Engine installation script set up the RHEL/Ubuntu package repositories,
so upgrading the Engine only requires you to run the update commands on your server.

### RHEL 7.0/7.1 upgrade

The following commands will stop the running DTR, upgrade CS Docker Engine,
and then start DTR again:

```
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry stop)"
    $ sudo yum update
    $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload && sudo systemctl restart docker
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry start)"
```

### Ubuntu 14.04 LTS upgrade

The following commands will stop the running DTR, upgrade CS Docker Engine,
and then start DTR again:

```
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry stop)"
    $ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade docker-engine-cs
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry start)"
```

## Installing Docker Trusted Registry

Once the commercially supported Docker Engine is installed, you can install DTR
itself. DTR is a self-installing application built and distributed using Docker
and the [Docker Hub](https://registry.hub.docker.com/). It is able to restart
and reconfigure itself using the Docker socket that is bind-mounted to its
container.

Start installing DTR by running the "docker/trusted-registry" container:

```
	$ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry install)"
```

> **Note**: `sudo` is needed for `docker/trusted-registry` commands to
> ensure that the Bash script is run with full access to the Docker host.

You can also find this command on the "Enterprise Licenses" section of your Hub
user profile. The command will execute a shell script that creates the needed
directories and then runs Docker to pull DTR's images and run its containers.

Depending on your internet connection, this process may take several minutes to
complete.

A successful installation will pull a large number of Docker images and should
display output similar to:

```
$ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry install)"
Unable to find image 'docker/trusted-registry:latest' locally
Pulling repository docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Pulling image (latest) from docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Pulling image (latest) from docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Pulling dependent layers
511136ea3c5a: Download complete
fa4fd76b09ce: Pulling metadata
fa4fd76b09ce: Pulling fs layer
ff2996b1faed: Download complete
...
fd7612809d57: Pulling metadata
fd7612809d57: Pulling fs layer
fd7612809d57: Download complete
c46d58daad7d: Pulling metadata
c46d58daad7d: Pulling fs layer
c46d58daad7d: Download complete
c46d58daad7d: Download complete
Status: Downloaded newer image for docker/trusted-registry:latest
Unable to find image 'docker/trusted-registry:1.1.0' locally
Pulling repository docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Download complete
511136ea3c5a: Download complete
fa4fd76b09ce: Download complete
1c8294cc5160: Download complete
117ee323aaa9: Download complete
2d24f826cb16: Download complete
33bfc1956932: Download complete
48f0dd6c9414: Download complete
65c30f72ecb2: Download complete
d4b29764d0d3: Download complete
5654f4fe5384: Download complete
9b9faa6ecd11: Download complete
0c275f56ca5c: Download complete
ff2996b1faed: Download complete
fd7612809d57: Download complete
Status: Image is up to date for docker/trusted-registry:1.1.0
INFO  [1.0.0_8ce62a61e058] Attempting to connect to docker engine dockerHost="unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
INFO  [1.0.0_8ce62a61e058] Running install command
<...output truncated...>
Creating container docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
Starting container docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
Bringing up docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator.
Creating container docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
Starting container docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                          COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                      NAMES
963ec2a4b047        docker/trusted-registry-nginx:1.1.0            "nginxWatcher"         5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:443->443/tcp   docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer     
7eade5529049        docker/trusted-registry-distribution:v2.0.1    "registry /config/st   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        5000/tcp                                   docker_trusted_registry_image_storage_0   
b968a8a986f9        docker/trusted-registry-distribution:v2.0.1    "registry /config/st   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        5000/tcp                                   docker_trusted_registry_image_storage_1   
390d9d68a33a        docker/trusted-registry-admin-server:1.1.0     "server"               5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        80/tcp                                     docker_trusted_registry_admin_server      
3f8a53dc5f35        docker/trusted-registry-log-aggregator:1.1.0   "log-aggregator"       5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes                                                   docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator    
44083421fa16        docker/trusted-registry-garant:1.1.0           "garant /config/gara   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes                                                   docker_trusted_registry_auth_server       
c4102adf73dc        postgres:9.4.1                                 "/docker-entrypoint.   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        5432/tcp                                   docker_trusted_registry_postgres      
```

Once this process completes, you should be able to manage and configure your DTR
instance by pointing your browser to `https://<host-ip>/`.

Your browser will warn you that this is an unsafe site, with a self-signed,
untrusted certificate. This is normal and expected; allow this connection
temporarily.

### Setting the DTR Domain Name

The DTR Administrator site will also warn that the "Domain Name" is not set. Go
to the "Settings" tab, and set the "Domain Name" to the full host-name of your
DTR server.
Hitting the "Save and Restart DTR Server" button will generate a new certificate, which will be used
by both the DTR Administrator web interface and the DTR Registry server.

After the server restarts, you will again need to allow the connection to the untrusted DTR web admin site.

![http settings page</admin/settings#http>](../assets/admin-settings-http-unlicensed.png)

Lastly, you will see a warning notifying you that this instance of DTR is
unlicensed. You'll correct this in the next step.

### Add your license

The DTR registry services will not start until you add your license.
To do that, you'll first download your license from the Docker Hub and then
upload it to your DTR web admin server. Follow these steps:

1. If needed, log back into the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com)
   using the user-name you used when obtaining your license. Go to "Settings" (in
   the menu under your user-name, top right) to get to your account settings, and
   then click on "Enterprise Licenses" in the side bar at left.

2. You'll see a list of available licenses. Click on the download button to
   obtain the license file you'd like to use.
   ![Download DTR license](../assets/docker-hub-org-enterprise-license.png)

3. Next, go to your DTR instance in your browser and click on the Settings tab
   and then the "License" tab. Click on the "Upload license file" button, which
   will open a standard file browser. Locate and select the license file you
   downloaded in step 2, above. Approve the selection to close the dialog.
   ![http settings page</admin/settings#license>](../assets/admin-settings-license.png)

4. Click the "Save and Restart DTR" button, which will quit DTR and then restart it, registering
   the new license.

5. Verify the acceptance of the license by confirming that the "unlicensed copy"
warning is no longer present.

### Securing DTR

Securing DTR is **required**. You will not be able to push or pull from DTR until you secure it.

There are several options and methods for securing DTR. For more information,
see the [configuration documentation](./configuration.md#security)

### Using DTR to push and pull images

Now that you have DTR configured with a "Domain Name" and have your client
Docker daemons configured with the required security settings, you can test your
setup by following the instructions for
[Using DTR to Push and pull images](./userguide.md#using-dtr-to-push-and-pull-images).

### DTR web interface and registry authentication

By default, there is no authentication set on either the DTR web admin
interface or the DTR registry. You can restrict access using an in-DTR
configured set of users (and passwords), or you can configure DTR to use LDAP-
based authentication.

See [DTR Authentication settings](./configuration.md#authentication) for more
details.

## Upgrading Docker Trusted Registry

DTR has been designed to allow on-the-fly software upgrades. Start by
clicking on the "System Health" tab. In the upper, right-hand side of the
dashboard, below the navigation bar, you'll see the currently installed version
(e.g., `Current Version: 0.1.12345`).

If your DTR instance is the latest available, you will also see the message:
"System Up to Date."

If there is an upgrade available, you will see the message "System Update
Available!" alongside a button labeled "Update to Version X.XX". To upgrade, DTR
will pull new DTR container images from the Docker Hub. If you have not already
connected to Docker Hub, DTR will prompt you to log in.

The upgrade process requires a small amount of downtime to complete. To complete
the upgrade, DTR will:
* Connect to the Docker Hub to pull new container images with the new version of
DTR.
* Deploy those containers
* Shut down the old containers
* Resolve any necessary links/urls.

Assuming you have a decent internet connection, the entire upgrade process
should complete within a few minutes.

You should now [upgrade CS Docker Engine](#upgrading-the-commercially-supported-docker-engine).

> **Note**: If Docker engine is upgraded first (DTR 1.0.0 on CS Docker Engine 1.6.1),
> DTR can still be upgraded from the command line by running:
>
> `sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry:1.1.0 upgrade 1.1.1)"`

## Next Steps

For information on configuring DTR for your environment, take a look at the
[Configuration instructions](./configuration.md).

Commit message:

Adds new Hub 2 integration
Revises the DTR acquisition and install process for Hub 2 integration.

Signed-off-by: Fred Lifton <fred.lifton@docker.com>

Conflicts:
	docs/adminguide.md
	docs/index.md
	docs/install.md

install.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "Installation"
description = "Installation instructions for Docker Trusted Registry"
keywords = ["docker, documentation, about, technology, understanding, enterprise, hub,  registry"]
[menu.main]
parent="smn_dhe"
weight=4
+++
<![end-metadata]-->


# Install Docker Trusted Registry

This document describes the process of obtaining, installing, and securing
Docker Trusted Registry (DTR). DTR is installed from Docker containers. Once
installed, you will need to select a method of securing it. This doc will
explain the options you have for security and help you find the resources needed
to configure it according to your chosen method. More configuration details can
be found in the [DTR Configuration page](configuration.md).

Specifically, installation requires completion of these steps, in order:

1. Acquire a license by purchasing DTR or signing up for a trial license.
2. Install the commercially supported Docker Engine.
3. Install DTR
4. Add your license to your DTR instance

To get your copy of DTR, including a free trial, visit the [Docker Subscription page](http://hub-beta.docker.com/enterprise/).

## Licensing

In order to run DTR, you will need to get a license, either by purchasing
DTR or acquiring a trial license. The license will be associated with your free
Docker Hub account or Docker Hub organization (so if you don't have an account,
you'll need to set one up, which can be done at the same time as your license
request). To get your license, visit the [Docker Subscription page](http://hub-beta.docker.com/enterprise/) and select the edition you would like acquire. After completing a brief registration process, follow the steps to acquire a license.

Once you've acquired your license, you can view or download it by logging in to Docker Hub, going to your account settings (gear icon at upper right), and then selecting ["Licenses"](https://hub-beta.docker.com/account/licenses/) from the top nav bar. 

The Licenses page will display your currently available licenses. Click the cloud icon to download your desired license. You may need to disable any pop-up blocker installed on your browser in order to complete the download.

You can also download the commercially supported Docker Engine packages from this page by clicking the download buttons at upper right (see below for details).


## Prerequisites

DTR 1.1 requires the following:

* Commercially supported Docker Engine 1.6.1 or later running on an
Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, RHEL 7.1 or RHEL 7.0 host. (See below for instructions on how
to install the commercially supported Docker Engine.)

> **Note:** In order to remain in compliance with your DTR support agreement,
> you **must** use the current version of commercially supported Docker Engine.
> Running the regular, open source version of Engine is **not** supported.

* Your Docker daemon needs to be listening to the Unix socket (the default) so
that it can be bind-mounted into the DTR management containers, allowing
DTR to manage itself and its updates. For this reason, your DTR host will also
need internet connectivity so it can access the updates.

* Your host also needs to have TCP ports `80` and `443` available for the DTR
container port mapping.

* You will also need the Docker Hub user-name and password used when obtaining
the DTR license (or the user-name of an administrator of the Hub organization
that obtained an Enterprise license).

## Installing the commercially supported Docker Engine

Since DTR is installed using Docker, the commercially supported Docker Engine
**must be** installed first. This is done with an RPM or DEB package, which you access using a script you download from your 
[Docker Hub Licenses page](https://hub-beta.docker.com/account/licenses/).

### Download the commercially supported Docker Engine installation script

To download the commercially supported Docker Engine Bash installation script,
log in to the [Docker Hub](https://hub-beta.docker.com) with the user-name used to
obtain your license . Once you're logged in, go to the
["Licenses"](https://hub-beta.docker.com/account/licenses/) page in your Hub account's "Settings" section (accessed via the gear icon at upper right).

Click the button at the top right of the page that corresponds to your intended host operating system. and then, once the Bash setup script is
downloaded, follow the steps below appropriate for your chosen OS.

![Docker Hub Docker engine install dropdown](../assets/docker-hub-org-enterprise-license.png)

### RHEL 7.0/7.1 installation

First, copy the downloaded Bash setup script to your RHEL host. Next, run the
following to install commercially supported Docker Engine and its dependencies,
and then start the Docker daemon:

```
$ sudo yum update && sudo yum upgrade
$ chmod 755 docker-cs-engine-rpm.sh
$ sudo ./docker-cs-engine-rpm.sh
$ sudo yum install docker-engine-cs
$ sudo systemctl enable docker.service
$ sudo systemctl start docker.service
```

In order to simplify using Docker, you can get non-sudo access to the Docker
socket by adding your user to the `docker` group, then logging out and back in
again:

```
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
$ exit
```

> **Note**: you may need to reboot your server to update its RHEL kernel.

### Ubuntu 14.04 LTS installation

First, copy the downloaded Bash setup script to your Ubuntu host. Next, run the
following to install commercially supported Docker Engine and its dependencies:

```
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
$ sudo apt-get install -y linux-image-extra-virtual
$ sudo reboot
$ chmod 755 docker-cs-engine-deb.sh
$ sudo ./docker-cs-engine-deb.sh
$ sudo apt-get install docker-engine-cs
```
Lastly, confirm Docker is running with `sudo service docker start`.

In order to simplify using Docker, you can get non-sudo access to the Docker
socket by adding your user to the `docker` group, then logging out and back in
again:

```
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
$ exit
```

> **Note**: you may need to reboot your server to update its LTS kernel.

## Upgrading the Commercially Supported Docker Engine

CS Docker Engine 1.6.1 contains fixes to security vulnerabilities,
  and customers should upgrade to it immediately.

> **Note**: If you have CS Docker Engine 1.6.0 installed, it must be upgraded;
  however, due to compatibility issues, [DTR must be upgraded](#upgrading-docker-hub-enterprise)
  first.

The CS Docker Engine installation script set up the RHEL/Ubuntu package repositories,
so upgrading the Engine only requires you to run the update commands on your server.

### RHEL 7.0/7.1 upgrade

The following commands will stop the running DTR, upgrade CS Docker Engine,
and then start DTR again:

```
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry stop)"
    $ sudo yum update
    $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload && sudo systemctl restart docker
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry start)"
```

### Ubuntu 14.04 LTS upgrade

The following commands will stop the running DTR, upgrade CS Docker Engine,
and then start DTR again:

```
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry stop)"
    $ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade docker-engine-cs
    $ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry start)"
```

## Installing Docker Trusted Registry

Once the commercially supported Docker Engine is installed, you can install DTR
itself. DTR is a self-installing application built and distributed using Docker
and the [Docker Hub](https://hub-beta.docker.com/). It is able to restart
and reconfigure itself using the Docker socket that is bind-mounted to its
container.

Start installing DTR by running the "docker/trusted-registry" container:

```
	$ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry install)"
```

> **Note**: `sudo` is needed for `docker/trusted-registry` commands to
> ensure that the Bash script is run with full access to the Docker host.

The command will execute a shell script that creates the needed
directories and then runs Docker to pull DTR's images and run its containers.

Depending on your internet connection, this process may take several minutes to
complete.

A successful installation will pull a large number of Docker images and should
display output similar to:

```
$ sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry install)"
Unable to find image 'docker/trusted-registry:latest' locally
Pulling repository docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Pulling image (latest) from docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Pulling image (latest) from docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Pulling dependent layers
511136ea3c5a: Download complete
fa4fd76b09ce: Pulling metadata
fa4fd76b09ce: Pulling fs layer
ff2996b1faed: Download complete
...
fd7612809d57: Pulling metadata
fd7612809d57: Pulling fs layer
fd7612809d57: Download complete
c46d58daad7d: Pulling metadata
c46d58daad7d: Pulling fs layer
c46d58daad7d: Download complete
c46d58daad7d: Download complete
Status: Downloaded newer image for docker/trusted-registry:latest
Unable to find image 'docker/trusted-registry:1.1.0' locally
Pulling repository docker/trusted-registry
c46d58daad7d: Download complete
511136ea3c5a: Download complete
fa4fd76b09ce: Download complete
1c8294cc5160: Download complete
117ee323aaa9: Download complete
2d24f826cb16: Download complete
33bfc1956932: Download complete
48f0dd6c9414: Download complete
65c30f72ecb2: Download complete
d4b29764d0d3: Download complete
5654f4fe5384: Download complete
9b9faa6ecd11: Download complete
0c275f56ca5c: Download complete
ff2996b1faed: Download complete
fd7612809d57: Download complete
Status: Image is up to date for docker/trusted-registry:1.1.0
INFO  [1.0.0_8ce62a61e058] Attempting to connect to docker engine dockerHost="unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
INFO  [1.0.0_8ce62a61e058] Running install command
<...output truncated...>
Creating container docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
Starting container docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
Bringing up docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator.
Creating container docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
Starting container docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator with docker daemon unix:///var/run/docker.sock
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                          COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                      NAMES
963ec2a4b047        docker/trusted-registry-nginx:1.1.0            "nginxWatcher"         5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:443->443/tcp   docker_trusted_registry_load_balancer     
7eade5529049        docker/trusted-registry-distribution:v2.0.1    "registry /config/st   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        5000/tcp                                   docker_trusted_registry_image_storage_0   
b968a8a986f9        docker/trusted-registry-distribution:v2.0.1    "registry /config/st   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        5000/tcp                                   docker_trusted_registry_image_storage_1   
390d9d68a33a        docker/trusted-registry-admin-server:1.1.0     "server"               5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        80/tcp                                     docker_trusted_registry_admin_server      
3f8a53dc5f35        docker/trusted-registry-log-aggregator:1.1.0   "log-aggregator"       5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes                                                   docker_trusted_registry_log_aggregator    
44083421fa16        docker/trusted-registry-garant:1.1.0           "garant /config/gara   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes                                                   docker_trusted_registry_auth_server       
c4102adf73dc        postgres:9.4.1                                 "/docker-entrypoint.   5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        5432/tcp                                   docker_trusted_registry_postgres      
```

Once this process completes, you should be able to manage and configure your DTR
instance by pointing your browser to `https://<host-ip>/`.

Your browser will warn you that this is an unsafe site, with a self-signed,
untrusted certificate. This is normal and expected; allow this connection
temporarily.

### Setting the DTR Domain Name

The DTR Administrator site will also warn that the "Domain Name" is not set. Go
to the "Settings" tab, and set the "Domain Name" to the full host-name of your
DTR server.
Hitting the "Save and Restart DTR Server" button will generate a new certificate, which will be used
by both the DTR Administrator web interface and the DTR Registry server.

After the server restarts, you will again need to allow the connection to the untrusted DTR web admin site.

![http settings page</admin/settings#http>](../assets/admin-settings-http-unlicensed.png)

Lastly, you will see a warning notifying you that this instance of DTR is
unlicensed. You'll correct this in the next step.

### Add your license

The DTR registry services will not start until you add your license.
To do that, you'll first download your license from the Docker Hub and then
upload it to your DTR web admin server. Follow these steps:

1. If needed, log back into the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com)
   using the user-name you used when obtaining your license. Go to "Settings"   (gear icon, top right) to get to your account settings, and then click on "Licenses" in the top nav bar.

2. You'll see a list of available licenses. Click on the download button to
   obtain the license file you'd like to use.
   ![Download DTR license](../assets/docker-hub-org-enterprise-license.png)

3. Next, go to your DTR instance in your browser and click on the Settings tab
   and then the "License" tab. Click on the "Upload license file" button, which
   will open a standard file browser. Locate and select the license file you
   downloaded in step 2, above. Approve the selection to close the dialog.
   ![http settings page</admin/settings#license>](../assets/admin-settings-license.png)

4. Click the "Save and Restart DTR" button, which will quit DTR and then restart it, registering
   the new license.

5. Verify the acceptance of the license by confirming that the "unlicensed copy"
warning is no longer present.

### Securing DTR

Securing DTR is **required**. You will not be able to push or pull from DTR until you secure it.

There are several options and methods for securing DTR. For more information,
see the [configuration documentation](./configuration.md#security)

### Using DTR to push and pull images

Now that you have DTR configured with a "Domain Name" and have your client
Docker daemons configured with the required security settings, you can test your
setup by following the instructions for
[Using DTR to Push and pull images](./userguide.md#using-dtr-to-push-and-pull-images).

### DTR web interface and registry authentication

By default, there is no authentication set on either the DTR web admin
interface or the DTR registry. You can restrict access using an in-DTR
configured set of users (and passwords), or you can configure DTR to use LDAP-
based authentication.

See [DTR Authentication settings](./configuration.md#authentication) for more
details.

## Upgrading Docker Trusted Registry

DTR has been designed to allow on-the-fly software upgrades. Start by
clicking on the "System Health" tab. In the upper, right-hand side of the
dashboard, below the navigation bar, you'll see the currently installed version
(e.g., `Current Version: 0.1.12345`).

If your DTR instance is the latest available, you will also see the message:
"System Up to Date."

If there is an upgrade available, you will see the message "System Update
Available!" alongside a button labeled "Update to Version X.XX". To upgrade, DTR
will pull new DTR container images from the Docker Hub. If you have not already
connected to Docker Hub, DTR will prompt you to log in.

The upgrade process requires a small amount of downtime to complete. To complete
the upgrade, DTR will:
* Connect to the Docker Hub to pull new container images with the new version of
DTR.
* Deploy those containers
* Shut down the old containers
* Resolve any necessary links/urls.

Assuming you have a decent internet connection, the entire upgrade process
should complete within a few minutes.

You should now [upgrade CS Docker Engine](#upgrading-the-commercially-supported-docker-engine) if needed.

> **Note**: If Docker engine is upgraded first (DTR 1.1 on CS Docker Engine 1.6.1),
> DTR can still be upgraded from the command line by running:
>
> `sudo bash -c "$(sudo docker run docker/trusted-registry:1.1.0 upgrade 1.1.1)"`

## Next Steps

For information on configuring DTR for your environment, take a look at the
[Configuration instructions](./configuration.md).
