<!--[metadata]>
+++
title ="Release Notes"
description="Release notes for Docker Universal Control Plane. Learn more about the changes introduced in the latest versions."
keywords = ["Docker, UCP", "Release notes", "Versions"]
[menu.main]
identifier="ucp_rnotes"
parent="mn_ucp"
weight=110
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# UCP Release Notes

Here you can learn about new features, bug fixes, breaking changes and
known issues for each UCP version.

You can then use [the upgrade instructions](installation/upgrade.md), to
upgrade your installation to the latest release.

## Version 1.1.1

**Features**

* Core
  * Upgraded Docker Swarm to version 1.2.2.
  * An administrator can now reset their password. Use the `docker/ucp-auth passwd`
  command for this.

* docker/ucp image
  * It's now possible to configure the heartbeat interval and election timeout
  of the UCP key-value store with the `docker/ucp install --kv-timeout` option.
  This is useful when running UCP across multiple data centers.
  [Learn more](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/tuning.html)
  * It's now possible skip TLS verification when joining new nodes to the
  cluster, using the `docker/ucp join --insecure-fingerprint` option. To ensure
  your cluster is secure, don't use this option for normal UCP deployments.

* UI
  * When pulling images on the UCP UI, you can now provide the credentials for
  a private registry.
  * It's now possible to disable a user account, to make it easier to switch
  from managed authentication to LDAP and vice-versa.
  * Added a setting to submit usage reports without anonymizing data.
  * When failing to pull an image on the UCP UI, a feedback message is
  displayed.
  * The Containers page now allows to show and hide columns.
  * The Containers page now allows filtering running, stopped, and system
  containers.

**Bug Fixes**

* Fixed an issue that prevented new nodes to be joined to a cluster, after
upgrading UCP from an older version to 1.1.0.
* When upgrading, configurations for user, teams, and organizations are now
preserved.
* When upgrading, version labels are correctly added to the containers.
* Improved error logs generated by the UP key-value store.
* The restore command now ensures the backup is not corrupt, that the UCP
cluster is healthy and is running the same or later version of UCP before
restoring.
* LDAP domain names are now case-insensitive for easier syncing.
* Fixed an issue that caused LDAP syncs to run every minute, after upgrading
UCP from an older version to 1.1.0.
* Fixed error by which user could get an "access denied" message when deploying
a container from the UI due to cached permission labels.

**Misc**

* Since container rescheduling has reached GA on Docker Swarm, you can use it
without having to install UCP with the `--swarm-experimental-flag`.
* UCP now requires a minimum of 2 GB of RAM per node, instead of 1.5 GB.
* During installation, UCP now warns you to only restart the Docker Engine
after joining all controller nodes to the cluster.

**Known Issues**

* When using UCP with a Docker Engine prior to 1.11.1-cs2, containers with a
restart policy set to `restart=always` and using an overlay network, may not
resume properly when the Docker daemon is restarted. Upgrade the Docker Engine
on your nodes to version 1.11.1-cs2 to fix this. This is specially important
when running UCP and DTR on the same nodes, and with high-availability.
* When attempting to restore a v1.1.0 backup on a new cluster installed with
the `fresh-install` flag, the restore operation may fail due to engine-discovery
configuration issues. You should create new backups after upgrading to v1.1.1.

## Version 1.1.0

**Features**

* Core
  * UCP and DTR are now using a unified authentication service
  * Users and teams created in UCP are displayed in DTR under the 'Datacenter'
  organization
  * All controllers joined to the cluster now have replicated CAs. For this,
  you need to copy the root key material to controllers joined to the cluster,
  * All UCP components were compiled with Go 1.5.4 and 1.6 to address a
  security vulnerability in Go
  * When joining nodes to the cluster, UCP automatically runs
  'engine-discovery' to configure the Docker Engine for multi-host networking
  * If you're using Docker Engine 1.11 with default configurations, when joining
  new nodes to the cluster multi-host networking is automatically configured
  without needing to restart the Docker daemon

* docker/ucp image
  * Added the 'backup' command to create backups of controller nodes
  * Added the 'restore' command, to restore a controller node from a backup
  * Added the 'regen-certs' command, to regenerate keys and certificates used on
  a controller node. You can use this for changing the SANS on the certificates
  or in case a CA is compromised
  * Added the 'stop' and 'restart' commands, to stop and start UCP containers
​
* UI
  * Now you can deploy apps from the UI using a docker-compse.yml file
  * There's a new setting to prevent users from deploying containers to the UCP
  controller nodes
  * Improved usability of LDAP configuration settings
  * Images page no longer shows the sha256 id of each image ID
  * User profiles now display default permissions
  * Improved feedback when creating users and teams with invalid characters
  * Added horizontal scrollbar to wide pages

**Bug Fixes**

* Improved messages when installing UCP on a host with firewall rules
* Images page no longer shows images generated from intermediate builds
* Images page no longer hangs when pulling an image
* Scaling a container from the UI now preserves parameters like 'net' and
'privileged'
* Fixed `docker ps --filter` to filter containers correctly


**Misc**

* All UCP containers now have the 'com.docker.ucp.version' label with their
upstream version or UCP version
* When running docker/ucp in interactive mode, the parameters and environment
variables passed to the command are displayed
* Renamed 'external-ucp-ca' flag to 'external-server-cert' for clarity.
The former name is deprecated but still available
* UCP is automatically configured to use overlay networking. Make sure ports
4789 and 7946 are open for this to work
* The new authentication service requires ports 12383-12386 to be open

**Known Issues**

* After upgrading to version `1.1.0`, if you join new nodes to the cluster,
a success message is displayed, but that node will not be part of the
cluster. As a workaround, join new controller nodes before upgrading, or
perform a fresh installation of UCP 1.1.0
* If you have an active login session in UCP and do an upgrade, you should force
refresh the browser or you may run into UI errors
* When joining replicas to the cluster, you may be prompted to restart the
Docker daemon on that node. For a faster installation, only restart the Docker
daemon after joining all replicas
* When deploying applications from the UI, using the `host` network option
might cause errors. If this happens, deploy the application from the CLI

**Component Versions**

UCP 1.1.0 uses:

* cfssl 1.2.0
* Docker Compose 1.7.0
* Docker Swarm: 1.1.3
* etcd 2.2.5
* RethinkDB 2.3.0

## Version 1.0.4

**Security update**

Fixes a security issue by which a user can can obtain unauthorized access to
UCP via LDAP authentication.

## Version 1.0.3

Fixes a bug introduced by version 1.0.2 that was causing problems when a user
navigated to their profile page.

## Version 1.0.2

**Security update**

Fixes a security issue by which a non-admin user account can gain admin-level
privileges via the UCP API.

**Known Issues**

Non-admin users might have an error when navigating to their profile page. This
happens when the user is part of a team that has a label applied to it.


## Version 1.0.1

**Features**

* Core
  * Upgraded Swarm to 1.1.3
  * Improved support for `docker cp`
  * System CA pool fallback for secure DTR connections
  * Added `--swarm-experimental` option during UCP install

* UI
  * Can provide one-time credentials to deploy a container from a private registry in UI
  * Added checkbox to select all containers in Containers screen
  * Removed click handlers from UI elements containing checkboxes
  * Usernames and team names now need to be url-compatible
  * Several usability improvements to Team screen
  * Messages now display team name, instead of Id
  * Added support for Growl style notifications
  * Improved usability of Applications page, when there are no applications
  deployed
  * Several improvements to form validations
  * Improved error messages displayed when users try to pull an image with
  no name
  * Don't allow creating teams with the same name
  * Non-admin users can no longer see cluster overview in Dashboard screen
  * Page size control is no longer displayed when the list has few elements
  * Renamed 'Roles' to 'Permissions'

**Bug fixes**

* Users that are on a team and have permission set to 'None', can no longer see
containers
* Volume driver options are now being correctly sent to Docker Engine
* Fix bug with visibility to User containers with the owner the same as a label


## Version 1.0.0

**Features**

* Core
    * License is now required to add nodes
    * Improved access control system
    * /\_ping endpoint now checks the state of datastore and Swarm
    * Use mutual TLS in CFSSL
    * Improved access control for Docker Engine proxy
    * Added support for custom server certificates and user bundles
    * Users can now launch "private" containers if default permission is Restricted Control or greater

* UI
    * Pages for Containers, Images, and Applications are now consistent
    * Improved usability of LDAP configuration page
    * Logs are displayed during LDAP configuration
    * Users can now see their permissions and teams on their profile page
    * Improved license configuration
    * Improved error messages for restricted operations
    * Support for enabling and disabling DTR integration

**Bug fixes**

* Users only see volumes, images, and networks if they have permissions
* User default role now setup properly with LDAP authentication
* Fixed container privilege escalation in access control
* Fixed UI issue that caused errors in Safari

**Misc**

* UCP now uses a vendored UCP Swarm image
* Removed timestamps from controller logs
* Switched from 'Full Control' to 'Restricted Control' for managing non-container resources

**Known issues**

In version 1.0.0 it's not possible to create containers on user-defined
bridge networks, using the UCP web app.
This happens because the UCP web app is using the \<node\>/\<network_name\> syntax,
which is not supported.

As a workaround, create the containers using the CLI and:

* Use only \<network_name\>, and let Swarm find the node with that network, or
* Use the network ID instead.


**Upgrade notes**

It's not possible to upgrade from previous versions to v1.0. If you've
participated in the Docker UCP beta program, you need to uninstall the beta
version, before installing v1.0.

To ensure a smooth transition process, start by uninstalling UCP from
the regular nodes, followed by the controller nodes. Also, make sure you
use `ucp uninstall` command from version 1.0:

    docker run --rm -it --name ucp -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock docker/ucp:1.0.0 uninstall -i

After uninstalling, you can [Install UCP on a sandbox](install-sandbox.md),
or [Install UCP for production](installation/install-production.md).
