desktop/use-desktop/container.md, before:

---
description: Docker Dashboard
keywords: Docker Dashboard, manage, containers, gui, dashboard, images, user manual
title: Explore Containers
---

The **Containers** view lists all your running containers and applications. You must have running or stopped containers and applications to see them listed.

## Container actions

Use the **Search** field to search for any specific container.

From the **Containers** view you can perform the following actions on one or more containers at once:
- Pause
- Resume
- Stop
- Start
- Delete

When you hover over individual containers, you can also:
- Click **Open in Visual Studio Code** to open the application in VS Code.
- Open the port exposed by the container in a browser.

## Inspect a container

You can obtain detailed information about the container when you select a container.

The **container view** displays **Logs**, **Inspect**, and **Stats** tabs and provides quick action buttons to perform various actions.

- Select **Logs** to see logs from the container. You can also:
    - Use `Cmd + f`/`Ctrl + f` to open the search bar and find specific entries. Search matches are highlighted in yellow.
    - Press `Enter` or `Shit + Enter` to jump to the next or previous search match respectively. 
    - Use the **Copy** icon in the top right-hand corner to copy all the logs to your clipboard.
    - Automatically copy any logs content by highlighting a few lines or a section of the logs.
    - Use the **Clear terminal** icon in the top right-hand corner to clear the logs terminal. 
    - Select and view external links that may be in your logs. 


- Select **Inspect** to view low-level information about the container. You can see the local path, version number of the image, SHA-256, port mapping, and other details.

- Select **Stats** to view information about the container resource utilization. You can see the amount of CPU, disk I/O, memory, and network I/O used by the container.

Commit message:

integrated terminal in DD and search functionality for Extensions marketplace and change of experimental to beta - ONLY PUBLISH WITH DD 4.12 (#15460)
* integrated terminal

* small tweak

* add screeshot

* experimental to beta change

* Revert "experimental to beta change"

This reverts commit a7044bdddc2ab7e1ba043de56400dc7a098015e7.

desktop/use-desktop/container.md, after:

---
description: Docker Dashboard
keywords: Docker Dashboard, manage, containers, gui, dashboard, images, user manual
title: Explore Containers
---

The **Containers** view lists all your running containers and applications. You must have running or stopped containers and applications to see them listed.

## Container actions

Use the **Search** field to search for any specific container.

From the **Containers** view you can perform the following actions on one or more containers at once:
- Pause
- Resume
- Stop
- Start
- Delete

When you hover over individual containers, you can also:
- Click **Open in Visual Studio Code** to open the application in VS Code.
- Open the port exposed by the container in a browser.

### Integrated terminal

You also have the option to open an integrated terminal, on a running container, directly within Docker Desktop. This allows you to quickly execute commands within your container so you can understand its current state or debug when something goes wrong.

Using the integrated terminal is the same as running `docker exec -it <container-id> /bin/sh`, or `docker exec -it <container-id> cmd.exe` if you are using Windows containers, in your external terminal. It also:

- Automatically detects the default user for a running container from the image's Dockerfile. If no use is specified it defaults to `root`.
- Persists your session if you navigate to another part of the Docker Dashboard and then return.
- Supports copy, paste, search, and clearing your session.

To open the integrated terminal, hover over your running container and select the **Show container actions** menu. From the dropdown menu, select **Open in terminal**.

 To use your external terminal, change your settings.

## Inspect a container

You can obtain detailed information about the container when you select a container.

The **container view** displays **Logs**, **Inspect**, and **Stats** tabs and provides quick action buttons to perform various actions.

- Select **Logs** to see logs from the container. You can also:
    - Use `Cmd + f`/`Ctrl + f` to open the search bar and find specific entries. Search matches are highlighted in yellow.
    - Press `Enter` or `Shit + Enter` to jump to the next or previous search match respectively. 
    - Use the **Copy** icon in the top right-hand corner to copy all the logs to your clipboard.
    - Automatically copy any logs content by highlighting a few lines or a section of the logs.
    - Use the **Clear terminal** icon in the top right-hand corner to clear the logs terminal. 
    - Select and view external links that may be in your logs. 


- Select **Inspect** to view low-level information about the container. You can see the local path, version number of the image, SHA-256, port mapping, and other details.

- Select **Stats** to view information about the container resource utilization. You can see the amount of CPU, disk I/O, memory, and network I/O used by the container.
