_includes/cli.md, before:

{% capture tabChar %}	{% endcapture %}<!-- Make sure atom is using hard tabs -->
{% assign controller_data = site.data[include.datafolder][include.datafile] %}
{% assign parentPath = page.path | prepend: "/" | remove: page.name %}

<br />

{{ controller_data.short | replace_relative_links: page.path }}

{% if controller_data.min_api_version %}
{% comment %}
  To reduce unnecessary clutter on the page, we only show the minimum required
  API version if it requires a relatively recent version of the Engine, which
  is configured through the "min_api_threshold" option in _config.yml

  Below, we first convert the min_api_version from a string to a number, so that
  we can compare versions (see https://stackoverflow.com/a/27200972/1811501),
  then compare it, to decide whether to show the "minimum required API version".
{% endcomment %}
{% assign min_api_version = controller_data.min_api_version | plus: 0 %}
{% if min_api_version >= site.min_api_threshold %}

<a href="/engine/api/v{{ controller_data.min_api_version }}/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="Open the {{ controller_data.min_api_version }} API reference (in a new window)">API {{ controller_data.min_api_version }}+</span></a>&nbsp;
The client and daemon API must both be at least
<a href="/engine/api/v{{ controller_data.min_api_version }}/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_">{{ controller_data.min_api_version }}</a>
to use this command. Use the `docker version` command on the client to check
your client and daemon API versions.

{% endif %}
{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.deprecated %}

> This command is [deprecated](/engine/deprecated/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
>
> It may be removed in a future Docker version. For more information, see the [Docker Roadmap](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/209){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
{: .warning }

{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.experimental %}

> This command is experimental.
>
> This command is experimental on the Docker daemon. It should not be used in
> production environments.
> To enable experimental features on the Docker daemon, edit the
> [daemon.json](/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/#daemon-configuration-file)
> and set `experimental` to `true`.
>
> {% include experimental.md %}

{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.experimentalcli %}

> This command is experimental on the Docker client.
>
> **It should not be used in production environments.**
>
> To enable experimental features in the Docker CLI, edit the
> [config.json](/engine/reference/commandline/cli/#configuration-files)
> and set `experimental` to `enabled`. You can go [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/#experimental-features)
> for more information.
{: .important }

{% endif %}

{% capture command-orchestrator %}
{% if controller_data.swarm %}

<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="This command works with the Swarm orchestrator.">Swarm</span> This command works with the Swarm orchestrator.

{% endif %}
{% if controller_data.kubernetes %}

<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="This command works with the Kubernetes orchestrator.">Kubernetes</span> This command works with the Kubernetes orchestrator.

{% endif %}
{% endcapture %}{{ command-orchestrator }}


{% if controller_data.usage %}

## Usage

```console
$ {{ controller_data.usage | replace: tabChar, "" | strip }}{% if controller_data.cname %} COMMAND{% endif %}
```

{% endif %}
{% unless controller_data.long == controller_data.short %}
{% if controller_data.options %}
Refer to the [options section](#options) for an overview of available [`OPTIONS`](#options) for this command.
{% endif %}

## Description

{: name="extended-description"}

{{ controller_data.long | replace_relative_links: page.path }}

{% endunless %}

{% if controller_data.examples %}
For example uses of this command, refer to the [examples section](#examples) below.
{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.options %}
  {% if controller_data.inherited_options %}
    {% assign alloptions = controller_data.options | concat:controller_data.inherited_options %}
  {% else %}
    {% assign alloptions = controller_data.options %}
  {% endif %}
## Options

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Name, shorthand</td>
    <td>Default</td>
    <td>Description</td>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
{% for option in alloptions %}
  {% capture deprecated-badge %}{% if option.deprecated %}<a href="/engine/deprecated/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-danger" data-toggle="tooltip" title="Read the deprecation reference (in a new window).">deprecated</span></a>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {% capture experimental-daemon-badge %}{% if option.experimental %}<a href="/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/#daemon-configuration-file" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-warning" data-toggle="tooltip" title="Read about experimental daemon options (in a new window).">experimental (daemon)</span></a>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {% capture experimental-cli-badge %}{% if option.experimentalcli %}<a href="/engine/reference/commandline/cli/#configuration-files" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-warning"  data-toggle="tooltip" title="Read about experimental CLI options (in a new window).">experimental (CLI)</span></a>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {%- if option.min_api_version -%}
    {% assign min_api_version = option.min_api_version | plus: 0 %}
    {% if min_api_version >= site.min_api_threshold %}
      {% capture min-api %}<a href="/engine/api/v{{ option.min_api_version }}/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" title="Open the {{ controller_data.min_api_version }} API reference (in a new window)">API {{ option.min_api_version }}+</span></a>{%endcapture%}
    {%- endif -%}
  {%- else -%}
    {% capture min-api %}{%endcapture%}
  {%- endif -%}
  {% capture flag-orchestrator %}{% if option.swarm %}<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" title="This option works for the Swarm orchestrator.">Swarm</span>{% endif %}{% if option.kubernetes %}<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" title="This option works for the Kubernetes orchestrator.">Kubernetes</span>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {% capture all-badges %}{{ deprecated-badge }}{{ experimental-daemon-badge }}{{ experimental-cli-badge }}{{ min-api }}{{ flag-orchestrator }}{% endcapture %}
  {% assign defaults-to-skip = "[],map[],false,0,0s,default,'',\"\"" | split: ',' %}
  {% capture option-default %}{% if option.default_value %}{% unless defaults-to-skip contains option.default_value or defaults-to-skip == blank %}`{{ option.default_value }}`{% endunless %}{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  <tr>
    {% if option.details_url and option.details_url != '' -%}
    <td markdown="span">[`--{{ option.option }}`]({{ option.details_url }}){% if option.shorthand %} , [`-{{ option.shorthand }}`]({{ option.details_url }}){% endif %}</td>
    {%- else -%}
    <td markdown="span">`--{{ option.option }}`{% if option.shorthand %} , `-{{ option.shorthand }}`{% endif %}</td>
    {%- endif %}
    <td markdown="span">{{ option-default }}</td>
    <td markdown="span">{% if all-badges != '' %}{{ all-badges | strip }}<br />{% endif %}{{ option.description | strip | escape }}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %} <!-- end for option -->
</tbody>
</table>
{% endif %} <!-- end if options -->

{% if controller_data.examples %}

## Examples

{{ controller_data.examples | replace_relative_links: page.path }}

{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.pname %}
{% unless controller_data.pname == include.datafile or controller_data.pname == "docker" %}

## Parent command

{% capture parentfile %}{{ controller_data.plink | remove_first: ".yaml" | remove_first: "docker_" }}{% endcapture %}
{% capture parentdatafile %}{{ controller_data.plink | remove_first: ".yaml" }}{% endcapture %}
{% capture parentDesc %}{{ site.data[include.datafolder][parentdatafile].short }}{% endcapture %}

| Command                                                        | Description      |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------|
| [{{ controller_data.pname }}]({{parentPath}}{{ parentfile }}/) | {{ parentDesc }} |

{% endunless %}
{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.cname %}

## Child commands

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Command</td>
    <td>Description</td>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
{% for command in controller_data.cname %}
  {% capture dataFileName %}{{ command | strip | replace: " ", "_" }}{% endcapture %}
  <tr>
    <td markdown="span">[{{ command }}]({{ parentPath }}{{ dataFileName | remove_first: "docker_" }}/)</td>
    <td markdown="span">{{ site.data[include.datafolder][dataFileName].short }}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %}
</tbody>
</table>
{% endif %}

{% unless controller_data.pname == "docker" or controller_data.pname == "dockerd" or include.datafile=="docker" %}

## Related commands

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Command</td>
    <td>Description</td>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
{% for command in site.data[include.datafolder][parentdatafile].cname %}
  {% capture dataFileName %}{{ command | strip | replace: " ", "_" }}{% endcapture %}
  <tr>
    <td markdown="span">[{{ command }}]({{ parentPath }}{{ dataFileName | remove_first: "docker_" }}/)</td>
    <td markdown="span">{{ site.data[include.datafolder][dataFileName].short }}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %}
</tbody>
</table>

{% endunless %}

Commit message:

reference: update description for experimental cli features
Experimental CLI features are enabled by default since docker 20.10, so the
instructions for enabling the features were no longer needed. Also tweaked the
description a bit to align how we describe experimental features elsewhere.

Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>

_includes/cli.md, after:

{% capture tabChar %}	{% endcapture %}<!-- Make sure atom is using hard tabs -->
{% assign controller_data = site.data[include.datafolder][include.datafile] %}
{% assign parentPath = page.path | prepend: "/" | remove: page.name %}

<br />

{{ controller_data.short | replace_relative_links: page.path }}

{% if controller_data.min_api_version %}
{% comment %}
  To reduce unnecessary clutter on the page, we only show the minimum required
  API version if it requires a relatively recent version of the Engine, which
  is configured through the "min_api_threshold" option in _config.yml

  Below, we first convert the min_api_version from a string to a number, so that
  we can compare versions (see https://stackoverflow.com/a/27200972/1811501),
  then compare it, to decide whether to show the "minimum required API version".
{% endcomment %}
{% assign min_api_version = controller_data.min_api_version | plus: 0 %}
{% if min_api_version >= site.min_api_threshold %}

<a href="/engine/api/v{{ controller_data.min_api_version }}/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="Open the {{ controller_data.min_api_version }} API reference (in a new window)">API {{ controller_data.min_api_version }}+</span></a>&nbsp;
The client and daemon API must both be at least
<a href="/engine/api/v{{ controller_data.min_api_version }}/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_">{{ controller_data.min_api_version }}</a>
to use this command. Use the `docker version` command on the client to check
your client and daemon API versions.

{% endif %}
{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.deprecated %}

> This command is [deprecated](/engine/deprecated/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
>
> It may be removed in a future Docker version. For more information, see the [Docker Roadmap](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/209){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
{: .warning }

{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.experimental %}

> This command is experimental.
>
> This command is experimental on the Docker daemon. It should not be used in
> production environments.
> To enable experimental features on the Docker daemon, edit the
> [daemon.json](/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/#daemon-configuration-file)
> and set `experimental` to `true`.
>
> {% include experimental.md %}

{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.experimentalcli %}

> This command is experimental.
>
> [Experimental features](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/#experimental-features)
> are intended for testing and feedback as their functionality or UX may change
> between releases without warning or can be removed entirely in a future release.
{: .important }

{% endif %}

{% capture command-orchestrator %}
{% if controller_data.swarm %}

<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="This command works with the Swarm orchestrator.">Swarm</span> This command works with the Swarm orchestrator.

{% endif %}
{% if controller_data.kubernetes %}

<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="This command works with the Kubernetes orchestrator.">Kubernetes</span> This command works with the Kubernetes orchestrator.

{% endif %}
{% endcapture %}{{ command-orchestrator }}


{% if controller_data.usage %}

## Usage

```console
$ {{ controller_data.usage | replace: tabChar, "" | strip }}{% if controller_data.cname %} COMMAND{% endif %}
```

{% endif %}
{% unless controller_data.long == controller_data.short %}
{% if controller_data.options %}
Refer to the [options section](#options) for an overview of available [`OPTIONS`](#options) for this command.
{% endif %}

## Description

{: name="extended-description"}

{{ controller_data.long | replace_relative_links: page.path }}

{% endunless %}

{% if controller_data.examples %}
For example uses of this command, refer to the [examples section](#examples) below.
{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.options %}
  {% if controller_data.inherited_options %}
    {% assign alloptions = controller_data.options | concat:controller_data.inherited_options %}
  {% else %}
    {% assign alloptions = controller_data.options %}
  {% endif %}
## Options

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Name, shorthand</td>
    <td>Default</td>
    <td>Description</td>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
{% for option in alloptions %}
  {% capture deprecated-badge %}{% if option.deprecated %}<a href="/engine/deprecated/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-danger" data-toggle="tooltip" title="Read the deprecation reference (in a new window).">deprecated</span></a>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {% capture experimental-daemon-badge %}{% if option.experimental %}<a href="/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/#daemon-configuration-file" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-warning" data-toggle="tooltip" title="Read about experimental daemon options (in a new window).">experimental (daemon)</span></a>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {% capture experimental-cli-badge %}{% if option.experimentalcli %}<a href="/engine/reference/commandline/cli/#configuration-files" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-warning"  data-toggle="tooltip" title="Read about experimental CLI options (in a new window).">experimental (CLI)</span></a>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {%- if option.min_api_version -%}
    {% assign min_api_version = option.min_api_version | plus: 0 %}
    {% if min_api_version >= site.min_api_threshold %}
      {% capture min-api %}<a href="/engine/api/v{{ option.min_api_version }}/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"><span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" title="Open the {{ controller_data.min_api_version }} API reference (in a new window)">API {{ option.min_api_version }}+</span></a>{%endcapture%}
    {%- endif -%}
  {%- else -%}
    {% capture min-api %}{%endcapture%}
  {%- endif -%}
  {% capture flag-orchestrator %}{% if option.swarm %}<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" title="This option works for the Swarm orchestrator.">Swarm</span>{% endif %}{% if option.kubernetes %}<span class="badge badge-info" data-toggle="tooltip" title="This option works for the Kubernetes orchestrator.">Kubernetes</span>{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  {% capture all-badges %}{{ deprecated-badge }}{{ experimental-daemon-badge }}{{ experimental-cli-badge }}{{ min-api }}{{ flag-orchestrator }}{% endcapture %}
  {% assign defaults-to-skip = "[],map[],false,0,0s,default,'',\"\"" | split: ',' %}
  {% capture option-default %}{% if option.default_value %}{% unless defaults-to-skip contains option.default_value or defaults-to-skip == blank %}`{{ option.default_value }}`{% endunless %}{% endif %}{% endcapture %}
  <tr>
    {% if option.details_url and option.details_url != '' -%}
    <td markdown="span">[`--{{ option.option }}`]({{ option.details_url }}){% if option.shorthand %} , [`-{{ option.shorthand }}`]({{ option.details_url }}){% endif %}</td>
    {%- else -%}
    <td markdown="span">`--{{ option.option }}`{% if option.shorthand %} , `-{{ option.shorthand }}`{% endif %}</td>
    {%- endif %}
    <td markdown="span">{{ option-default }}</td>
    <td markdown="span">{% if all-badges != '' %}{{ all-badges | strip }}<br />{% endif %}{{ option.description | strip | escape }}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %} <!-- end for option -->
</tbody>
</table>
{% endif %} <!-- end if options -->

{% if controller_data.examples %}

## Examples

{{ controller_data.examples | replace_relative_links: page.path }}

{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.pname %}
{% unless controller_data.pname == include.datafile or controller_data.pname == "docker" %}

## Parent command

{% capture parentfile %}{{ controller_data.plink | remove_first: ".yaml" | remove_first: "docker_" }}{% endcapture %}
{% capture parentdatafile %}{{ controller_data.plink | remove_first: ".yaml" }}{% endcapture %}
{% capture parentDesc %}{{ site.data[include.datafolder][parentdatafile].short }}{% endcapture %}

| Command                                                        | Description      |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------|
| [{{ controller_data.pname }}]({{parentPath}}{{ parentfile }}/) | {{ parentDesc }} |

{% endunless %}
{% endif %}

{% if controller_data.cname %}

## Child commands

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Command</td>
    <td>Description</td>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
{% for command in controller_data.cname %}
  {% capture dataFileName %}{{ command | strip | replace: " ", "_" }}{% endcapture %}
  <tr>
    <td markdown="span">[{{ command }}]({{ parentPath }}{{ dataFileName | remove_first: "docker_" }}/)</td>
    <td markdown="span">{{ site.data[include.datafolder][dataFileName].short }}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %}
</tbody>
</table>
{% endif %}

{% unless controller_data.pname == "docker" or controller_data.pname == "dockerd" or include.datafile=="docker" %}

## Related commands

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Command</td>
    <td>Description</td>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
{% for command in site.data[include.datafolder][parentdatafile].cname %}
  {% capture dataFileName %}{{ command | strip | replace: " ", "_" }}{% endcapture %}
  <tr>
    <td markdown="span">[{{ command }}]({{ parentPath }}{{ dataFileName | remove_first: "docker_" }}/)</td>
    <td markdown="span">{{ site.data[include.datafolder][dataFileName].short }}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %}
</tbody>
</table>

{% endunless %}
