_includes/configure-registry-json.md, before:

<!-- This section is included in topics that contain instructions on how to configure registry.json file to enforce users to sign into Docker Desktop-->

## Create a registry.json file

When creating a `registry.json` file, ensure that the developer is a member of
at least one organization in Docker Hub. If the `registry.json` file matches at
least one organization the developer is a member of, they can sign in to Docker
Desktop and access all their organizations.

### Windows

On Windows, run the following command in a terminal to install Docker Desktop:

```console
C:\Users\Admin> "Docker Desktop Installer.exe" install
```

If you’re using PowerShell, you should run it as:

```console
PS> Start-Process '.\win\build\Docker Desktop Installer.exe' -Wait install
```

If using the Windows Command Prompt:

```console
C:\Users\Admin> start /w "" "Docker Desktop Installer.exe" install
```

The `install` command accepts the following flag:

`--allowed-org=<org name>`

This requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub organization
when running the application. For example:

```console
C:\Users\Admin> "Docker Desktop Installer.exe" install --allowed-org=acmeinc
```

This creates the `registry.json` file at `C:\ProgramData\DockerDesktop\registry.json` 
and includes the organization information the user belongs to. Make sure this file
can't be edited by the individual developer, only by the administrator.

### Mac

After downloading `Docker.dmg`, run the following commands in a terminal to install
Docker Desktop in the Applications folder:

```console
$ sudo hdiutil attach Docker.dmg
$ sudo /Volumes/Docker/Docker.app/Contents/MacOS/install
$ sudo hdiutil detach /Volumes/Docker
```

The `install` command accepts the following flags:

`--allowed-org=<org name>`

This requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub
organization when running the application. For example:

```console
$ sudo hdiutil attach Docker.dmg --allowed-org=acmeinc
```

This creates the `registry.json` file at `/Library/Application Support/com.docker.docker/registry.json`
and includes the organization information the user belongs to. Make sure this file
can't be edited by the individual developer, only by the administrator.

Commit message:

desktop: windows: fix highlighting of some command-line examples
Signed-off-by: Sebastiaan van Stijn <github@gone.nl>

_includes/configure-registry-json.md, after:

<!-- This section is included in topics that contain instructions on how to configure registry.json file to enforce users to sign into Docker Desktop-->

## Create a registry.json file

When creating a `registry.json` file, ensure that the developer is a member of
at least one organization in Docker Hub. If the `registry.json` file matches at
least one organization the developer is a member of, they can sign in to Docker
Desktop and access all their organizations.

### Windows

After downloading **Docker Desktop Installer.exe**, open a terminal, and change
to the directory in which you downloaded the installer, then run the following
command to install Docker Desktop:

```console
C:\Users\Admin> "Docker Desktop Installer.exe" install
```

If you’re using PowerShell, you should run it as:

```console
PS> Start-Process '.\Docker Desktop Installer.exe' -Wait install
```

If using the Windows Command Prompt:

```console
C:\Users\Admin> start /w "" "Docker Desktop Installer.exe" install
```

The `install` command accepts the following flag:

`--allowed-org=<org name>`

This requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub organization
when running the application. For example:

```console
C:\Users\Admin> "Docker Desktop Installer.exe" install --allowed-org=acmeinc
```

This creates the `registry.json` file at `C:\ProgramData\DockerDesktop\registry.json` 
and includes the organization information the user belongs to. Make sure this file
can't be edited by the individual developer, only by the administrator.

### Mac

After downloading `Docker.dmg`, run the following commands in a terminal to install
Docker Desktop in the Applications folder:

```console
$ sudo hdiutil attach Docker.dmg
$ sudo /Volumes/Docker/Docker.app/Contents/MacOS/install
$ sudo hdiutil detach /Volumes/Docker
```

The `install` command accepts the following flags:

`--allowed-org=<org name>`

This requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub
organization when running the application. For example:

```console
$ sudo hdiutil attach Docker.dmg --allowed-org=acmeinc
```

This creates the `registry.json` file at `/Library/Application Support/com.docker.docker/registry.json`
and includes the organization information the user belongs to. Make sure this file
can't be edited by the individual developer, only by the administrator.
