_includes/desktop-update.md, before:

<!-- This text will be included in the Mac and Windows Install topic -->

Starting with Docker Desktop 3.0.0, updates to Docker Desktop will be available as delta updates from the previous version. When an update is available, Docker Desktop displays an icon to indicate the availability of a newer version. You can choose when to start the download and installation process.

> To encourage developers to stay up to date, Docker Desktop displays a reminder two weeks after an update becomes available. You can dismiss this daily reminder by clicking **Snooze**. You can skip an update when a reminder appears by clicking the **Skip this update** option.

![Snooze update](/desktop/mac/images/snooze-update.png){:width="500px"}

Click **Download update** When you are ready to download the update. This downloads the update in the background. After downloading the update, click **Update and restart** from the Docker menu. This installs the latest update and restarts Docker Desktop for the changes to take effect.

Commit message:

First draft for subscription changes
Signed-off-by: Usha Mandya <usha.mandya@docker.com>

_includes/desktop-update.md, after:

<!-- This text will be included in the Mac and Windows Install topic -->

When an update is available, Docker Desktop displays an icon to indicate the availability of a newer version. You can choose when to start the download and installation process.

To encourage developers to stay up to date, Docker Desktop displays a reminder two weeks after an update becomes available. You can dismiss this daily reminder by clicking **Snooze**. You can skip an update when a reminder appears by clicking the **Skip this update** option.

> **Docker Subscription Service Terms**
>
> Beginning on August 31, 2021, you must agree to the [Docker Subscription Service Terms](https://www.docker.com/legal/docker-terms-service){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} to continue using Docker Desktop. Read the [Blog](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} and the [Docker subscription FAQs](https://www.docker.com/pricing/faq){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} to learn more about the changes.

![Snooze update](/desktop/mac/images/snooze-update.png){:width="500px"}

Click **Download update** When you are ready to download the update. This downloads the update in the background. After downloading the update, click **Update and restart** from the Docker menu. This installs the latest update and restarts Docker Desktop for the changes to take effect.

When Docker Desktop starts, it displays the Subscription Service Terms window. Read the information presented on the screen to understand how the changes impact you. Click the checkbox to indicate that you accept the terms of service and then click **Accept** to continue.

> **Important**
>
> If you do not agree to the terms, the Docker Desktop application will close and you can no longer run Docker Desktop on your machine.You can choose to accept the terms at a later date by opening Docker Desktop.
{: .important}

Docker Desktop starts after you accept the terms of service.
