pkg/discovery/README.md, before:

---
page_title: Docker discovery
page_description: discovery
page_keywords: docker, clustering, discovery
---

# Discovery

Docker comes with multiple Discovery backends.

## Backends

### Using etcd

Point your Docker Engine instances to a common etcd instance. You can specify
the address Docker uses to advertise the node using the `--discovery-address`
flag.

```bash
$ docker daemon -H=<node_ip:2376> --discovery-address=<node_ip:2376> --discovery-backend etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
```

### Using consul

Point your Docker Engine instances to a common Consul instance. You can specify
the address Docker uses to advertise the node using the `--discovery-address`
flag.

```bash
$ docker daemon -H=<node_ip:2376> --discovery-address=<node_ip:2376> --discovery-backend consul://<consul_ip>/<path>
```

### Using zookeeper

Point your Docker Engine instances to a common Zookeeper instance. You can specify
the address Docker uses to advertise the node using the `--discovery-address`
flag.

```bash
$ docker daemon -H=<node_ip:2376> --discovery-address=<node_ip:2376> --discovery-backend zk://<zk_addr1>,<zk_addr2>>/<path>
```

Commit message:

fix discovery package documentation with the right --cluster* flags
Signed-off-by: Alexandre Beslic <abronan@docker.com>

pkg/discovery/README.md, after:

---
page_title: Docker discovery
page_description: discovery
page_keywords: docker, clustering, discovery
---

# Discovery

Docker comes with multiple Discovery backends.

## Backends

### Using etcd

Point your Docker Engine instances to a common etcd instance. You can specify
the address Docker uses to advertise the node using the `--cluster-advertise`
flag.

```bash
$ docker daemon -H=<node_ip:2376> --cluster-advertise=<node_ip:2376> --cluster-store etcd://<etcd_ip1>,<etcd_ip2>/<path>
```

### Using consul

Point your Docker Engine instances to a common Consul instance. You can specify
the address Docker uses to advertise the node using the `--cluster-advertise`
flag.

```bash
$ docker daemon -H=<node_ip:2376> --cluster-advertise=<node_ip:2376> --cluster-store consul://<consul_ip>/<path>
```

### Using zookeeper

Point your Docker Engine instances to a common Zookeeper instance. You can specify
the address Docker uses to advertise the node using the `--cluster-advertise`
flag.

```bash
$ docker daemon -H=<node_ip:2376> --cluster-advertise=<node_ip:2376> --cluster-store zk://<zk_addr1>,<zk_addr2>/<path>
```
