docs/sources/articles/baseimages.md, before:

page_title: Create a base image
page_description: How to create base images
page_keywords: Examples, Usage, base image, docker, documentation, examples

# Create a base image

So you want to create your own [*Base Image*](
/terms/image/#base-image)? Great!

The specific process will depend heavily on the Linux distribution you
want to package. We have some examples below, and you are encouraged to
submit pull requests to contribute new ones.

## Create a full image using tar

In general, you'll want to start with a working machine that is running
the distribution you'd like to package as a base image, though that is
not required for some tools like Debian's
[Debootstrap](https://wiki.debian.org/Debootstrap), which you can also
use to build Ubuntu images.

It can be as simple as this to create an Ubuntu base image:

    $ sudo debootstrap raring raring > /dev/null
    $ sudo tar -C raring -c . | docker import - raring
    a29c15f1bf7a
    $ docker run raring cat /etc/lsb-release
    DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
    DISTRIB_RELEASE=13.04
    DISTRIB_CODENAME=raring
    DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 13.04"

There are more example scripts for creating base images in the Docker
GitHub Repo:

 - [BusyBox](https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-busybox.sh)
 - CentOS / Scientific Linux CERN (SLC) [on Debian/Ubuntu](
   https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-rinse.sh) or
   [on CentOS/RHEL/SLC/etc.](
   https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-yum.sh)
 - [Debian / Ubuntu](
   https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-debootstrap.sh)

## Creating a simple base image using `scratch`

There is a special repository in the Docker registry called `scratch`, which
was created using an empty tar file:

    $ tar cv --files-from /dev/null | docker import - scratch

which you can `docker pull`. You can then use that
image to base your new minimal containers `FROM`:

    FROM scratch
    COPY true-asm /true
    CMD ["/true"]

The `Dockerfile` above is from an extremely minimal image - [tianon/true](
https://github.com/tianon/dockerfiles/tree/master/true).

## More resources

There are lots more resources available to help you write your 'Dockerfile`.

* There's a [complete guide to all the instructions](/reference/builder/) available for use in a `Dockerfile` in the reference section.
* To help you write a clear, readable, maintainable `Dockerfile`, we've also
written a [`Dockerfile` Best Practices guide](/articles/dockerfile_best-practices).
* If your goal is to create a new Official Repository, be sure to read up on Docker's [Official Repositories](/docker-hub/official_repos/).

Commit message:

Update doc with usage of the scratch image
The scratch image used to be a regular image, but as of
commit 8936789919c5c8004f346f44a3452d1521818b60 it is a
special case, and cannot be used with 'docker pull.'

Update this doc to reflect the new behavior and clear up
confusion surrounding this image.

Signed-off-by: Christy Perez <christy@linux.vnet.ibm.com>

docs/sources/articles/baseimages.md, after:

page_title: Create a base image
page_description: How to create base images
page_keywords: Examples, Usage, base image, docker, documentation, examples

# Create a base image

So you want to create your own [*Base Image*](
/terms/image/#base-image)? Great!

The specific process will depend heavily on the Linux distribution you
want to package. We have some examples below, and you are encouraged to
submit pull requests to contribute new ones.

## Create a full image using tar

In general, you'll want to start with a working machine that is running
the distribution you'd like to package as a base image, though that is
not required for some tools like Debian's
[Debootstrap](https://wiki.debian.org/Debootstrap), which you can also
use to build Ubuntu images.

It can be as simple as this to create an Ubuntu base image:

    $ sudo debootstrap raring raring > /dev/null
    $ sudo tar -C raring -c . | docker import - raring
    a29c15f1bf7a
    $ docker run raring cat /etc/lsb-release
    DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
    DISTRIB_RELEASE=13.04
    DISTRIB_CODENAME=raring
    DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 13.04"

There are more example scripts for creating base images in the Docker
GitHub Repo:

 - [BusyBox](https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-busybox.sh)
 - CentOS / Scientific Linux CERN (SLC) [on Debian/Ubuntu](
   https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-rinse.sh) or
   [on CentOS/RHEL/SLC/etc.](
   https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-yum.sh)
 - [Debian / Ubuntu](
   https://github.com/docker/docker/blob/master/contrib/mkimage-debootstrap.sh)

## Creating a simple base image using scratch

You can use Docker's reserved, minimal image, `scratch`, as a starting point for building containers. Using the `scratch` "image" signals to the build process that you want the next command in the `Dockerfile` to be the first filesystem layer in your image.

While `scratch` appears in Docker's repository on the hub, you can't pull it, run it, or tag any image with the name `scratch`. Instead, you can refer to it in your `Dockerfile`. For example, to create a minimal container using `scratch`:

    FROM scratch
    ADD hello /
    CMD ["/hello"]

This example creates the hello-world image used in the tutorials.
If you want to test it out, you can clone [the image repo](https://github.com/docker-library/hello-world)


## More resources

There are lots more resources available to help you write your 'Dockerfile`.

* There's a [complete guide to all the instructions](/reference/builder/) available for use in a `Dockerfile` in the reference section.
* To help you write a clear, readable, maintainable `Dockerfile`, we've also
written a [`Dockerfile` Best Practices guide](/articles/dockerfile_best-practices).
* If your goal is to create a new Official Repository, be sure to read up on Docker's [Official Repositories](/docker-hub/official_repos/).
