compose/environment-variables.md, before:

---
title: Environment variables in Compose
description: How to set, use and manage environment variables in Compose
keywords: compose, orchestration, environment, env file
redirect_from:
- /compose/env/
- /compose/link-env-deprecated/
---

There are multiple parts of Compose that deal with environment variables in one
sense or another. This page should help you find the information you need.


## Substitute environment variables in Compose files

It's possible to use environment variables in your shell to populate values
inside a Compose file:

```yaml
web:
  image: "webapp:${TAG}"
```

If you have multiple environment variables, you can substitute them by adding
them to a default environment variable file named `.env` or by providing a
path to your environment variables file using the `--env-file` command line option.

{% include content/compose-var-sub.md %}

### The “.env” file

You can set default values for any environment variables referenced in the
Compose file, or used to configure Compose, in an [environment file](env-file.md)
named `.env`. The `.env` file path is as follows:

  - Starting with `+v1.28`, `.env` file is placed at the base of the project directory 
  - Project directory can be explicitly defined with the `--file` option or `COMPOSE_FILE`
  environment variable. Otherwise, it is the current working directory where the 
  `docker compose` command is executed (`+1.28`).
  - For previous versions, it might have trouble resolving `.env` file with 
  `--file` or `COMPOSE_FILE`. To work around it, it is recommended to use `--project-directory`,
  which overrides the path for the `.env` file. This inconsistency is addressed
  in `+v1.28` by limiting the filepath to the project directory.


```console
$ cat .env
TAG=v1.5

$ cat docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: "webapp:${TAG}"
```

When you run `docker compose up`, the `web` service defined above uses the
image `webapp:v1.5`. You can verify this with the
[convert command](../engine/reference/commandline/compose_convert.md), which prints your resolved application config to the terminal:

```console
$ docker compose convert

version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v1.5'
```

Values in the shell take precedence over those specified in the `.env` file.

If you set `TAG` to a different value in your shell, the substitution in `image`
uses that instead:

```console
$ export TAG=v2.0
$ docker compose convert

version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v2.0'
```

You can override the environment file path using a command line argument `--env-file`.

### Using the “--env-file”  option 

By passing the file as an argument, you can store it anywhere and name it 
appropriately, for example, `.env.ci`, `.env.dev`, `.env.prod`. Passing the file path is 
done using the `--env-file` option:

```console
$ docker compose --env-file ./config/.env.dev up 
```

This file path is relative to the current working directory where the Docker Compose
command is executed.

```console
$ cat .env
TAG=v1.5

$ cat ./config/.env.dev
TAG=v1.6


$ cat docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: "webapp:${TAG}"
```

The `.env` file is loaded by default:

```console
$ docker compose convert 
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v1.5'
```

Passing the `--env-file` argument overrides the default file path:

```console
$ docker compose --env-file ./config/.env.dev config 
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v1.6'
```

When an invalid file path is being passed as `--env-file` argument, Compose returns an error:

```console
$ docker compose --env-file ./doesnotexist/.env.dev  config
ERROR: Couldn't find env file: /home/user/./doesnotexist/.env.dev
```

For more information, see the
[Variable substitution](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#variable-substitution) section in the
Compose file reference.


## Set environment variables in containers

You can set environment variables in a service's containers with the
['environment' key](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#environment), just like with
`docker run -e VARIABLE=VALUE ...`:

```yaml
web:
  environment:
    - DEBUG=1
```

## Pass environment variables to containers

You can pass environment variables from your shell straight through to a
service's containers with the ['environment' key](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#environment)
by not giving them a value, just like with `docker run -e VARIABLE ...`:

```yaml
web:
  environment:
    - DEBUG
```

The value of the `DEBUG` variable in the container is taken from the value for
the same variable in the shell in which Compose is run.

## The “env_file” configuration option

You can pass multiple environment variables from an external file through to
a service's containers with the ['env_file' option](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#env_file),
just like with `docker run --env-file=FILE ...`:

```yaml
web:
  env_file:
    - web-variables.env
```

## Set environment variables with 'docker compose run'

Similar to `docker run -e`, you can set environment variables on a one-off
container with `docker compose run -e`:

```console
$ docker compose run -e DEBUG=1 web python console.py
```

You can also pass a variable from the shell by not giving it a value:

```console
$ docker compose run -e DEBUG web python console.py
```

The value of the `DEBUG` variable in the container is taken from the value for
the same variable in the shell in which Compose is run.

When you set the same environment variable in multiple files, here's the
priority used by Compose to choose which value to use:

1. Compose file
2. Shell environment variables
3. Environment file
4. Dockerfile
5. Variable is not defined

In the example below, we set the same environment variable on an Environment
file, and the Compose file:

```console
$ cat ./Docker/api/api.env
NODE_ENV=test

$ cat docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  api:
    image: 'node:6-alpine'
    env_file:
     - ./Docker/api/api.env
    environment:
     - NODE_ENV=production
```

When you run the container, the environment variable defined in the Compose
file takes precedence.

```console
$ docker compose exec api node

> process.env.NODE_ENV
'production'
```

Having any `ARG` or `ENV` setting in a `Dockerfile` evaluates only if there is
no Docker Compose entry for `environment` or `env_file`.

> Specifics for NodeJS containers
>
> If you have a `package.json` entry for `script:start` like
> `NODE_ENV=test node server.js`, then this overrules any setting in your
> `docker-compose.yml` file.

## Configure Compose using environment variables

Several environment variables are available for you to configure the Docker
Compose command-line behavior. They begin with `COMPOSE_` or `DOCKER_`, and are
documented in [CLI Environment Variables](reference/envvars.md).

Commit message:

Removing old rule and Unset cells in table

compose/environment-variables.md, after:

---
title: Environment variables in Compose
description: How to set, use and manage environment variables in Compose
keywords: compose, orchestration, environment, env file
redirect_from:
- /compose/env/
- /compose/link-env-deprecated/
---

There are multiple parts of Compose that deal with environment variables in one
sense or another. This page should help you find the information you need.


## Substitute environment variables in Compose files

It's possible to use environment variables in your shell to populate values
inside a Compose file:

```yaml
web:
  image: "webapp:${TAG}"
```

If you have multiple environment variables, you can substitute them by adding
them to a default environment variable file named `.env` or by providing a
path to your environment variables file using the `--env-file` command line option.

{% include content/compose-var-sub.md %}

### The “.env” file

You can set default values for any environment variables referenced in the
Compose file, or used to configure Compose, in an [environment file](env-file.md)
named `.env`. The `.env` file path is as follows:

  - Starting with `+v1.28`, `.env` file is placed at the base of the project directory 
  - Project directory can be explicitly defined with the `--file` option or `COMPOSE_FILE`
  environment variable. Otherwise, it is the current working directory where the 
  `docker compose` command is executed (`+1.28`).
  - For previous versions, it might have trouble resolving `.env` file with 
  `--file` or `COMPOSE_FILE`. To work around it, it is recommended to use `--project-directory`,
  which overrides the path for the `.env` file. This inconsistency is addressed
  in `+v1.28` by limiting the filepath to the project directory.


```console
$ cat .env
TAG=v1.5

$ cat docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: "webapp:${TAG}"
```

When you run `docker compose up`, the `web` service defined above uses the
image `webapp:v1.5`. You can verify this with the
[convert command](../engine/reference/commandline/compose_convert.md), which prints your resolved application config to the terminal:

```console
$ docker compose convert

version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v1.5'
```

Values in the shell take precedence over those specified in the `.env` file.

If you set `TAG` to a different value in your shell, the substitution in `image`
uses that instead:

```console
$ export TAG=v2.0
$ docker compose convert

version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v2.0'
```

You can override the environment file path using a command line argument `--env-file`.

### Using the “--env-file”  option

By passing the file as an argument, you can store it anywhere and name it appropriately, for example, `.env.ci`, `.env.dev`, `.env.prod`. Passing the file path is done using the `--env-file` option:

```console
$ docker compose --env-file ./config/.env.dev up
```

This file path is relative to the current working directory where the Docker Compose
command is executed.

```console
$ cat .env
TAG=v1.5

$ cat ./config/.env.dev
TAG=v1.6


$ cat docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: "webapp:${TAG}"
```

The `.env` file is loaded by default:

```console
$ docker compose convert
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v1.5'
```

Passing the `--env-file` argument overrides the default file path:

```console
$ docker compose --env-file ./config/.env.dev config
version: '3'
services:
  web:
    image: 'webapp:v1.6'
```

When an invalid file path is being passed as `--env-file` argument, Compose returns an error:

```console
$ docker compose --env-file ./doesnotexist/.env.dev  config
ERROR: Couldn't find env file: /home/user/./doesnotexist/.env.dev
```

For more information, see the
[Variable substitution](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#variable-substitution) section in the
Compose file reference.


## Set environment variables in containers

You can set environment variables in a service's containers with the
['environment' key](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#environment), just like with
`docker run -e VARIABLE=VALUE ...`:

```yaml
web:
  environment:
    - DEBUG=1
```

## Pass environment variables to containers

You can pass environment variables from your shell straight through to a
service's containers with the ['environment' key](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#environment)
by not giving them a value, just like with `docker run -e VARIABLE ...`:

```yaml
web:
  environment:
    - DEBUG
```

The value of the `DEBUG` variable in the container is taken from the value for
the same variable in the shell in which Compose is run.

## The “env_file” configuration option

You can pass multiple environment variables from an external file through to
a service's containers with the ['env_file' option](compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#env_file),
just like with `docker run --env-file=FILE ...`:

```yaml
web:
  env_file:
    - web-variables.env
```

## Set environment variables with 'docker compose run'

Similar to `docker run -e`, you can set environment variables on a one-off
container with `docker compose run -e`:

```console
$ docker compose run -e DEBUG=1 web python console.py
```

You can also pass a variable from the shell by not giving it a value:

```console
$ docker compose run -e DEBUG web python console.py
```

The value of the `DEBUG` variable in the container is taken from the value for
the same variable in the shell in which Compose is run.

>**Note**
>
> When you set the same environment variable in multiple files, there's a precedence rule used by Compose when trying to resolve the value for the variable in question.
You can find this precedence rule and a table illustrating how interpolation works in the [Environment variables precedence](../compose/envvars-precedence.md) page.

In the example below, we set the same environment variable on an Environment
file, and the Compose file:

```console
$ cat ./Docker/api/api.env
NODE_ENV=test

$ cat docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  api:
    image: 'node:6-alpine'
    env_file:
     - ./Docker/api/api.env
    environment:
     - NODE_ENV=production
```

When you run the container, the environment variable defined in the Compose
file takes precedence.

```console
$ docker compose exec api node

> process.env.NODE_ENV
'production'
```

Having any `ARG` or `ENV` setting in a `Dockerfile` evaluates only if there is
no Docker Compose entry for `environment` or `env_file`.

> Specifics for NodeJS containers
>
> If you have a `package.json` entry for `script:start` like
> `NODE_ENV=test node server.js`, then this overrules any setting in your
> `docker-compose.yml` file.

## Configure Compose using environment variables

Several environment variables are available for you to configure the Docker
Compose command-line behavior. They begin with `COMPOSE_` or `DOCKER_`, and are
documented in [CLI Environment Variables](reference/envvars.md).
