compose/gpu-support.md, before:

---
description: GPU support in Compose
keywords: documentation, docs, docker, compose, GPU access, NVIDIA, samples
title: Enabling GPU access with Compose
---

Compose services can define GPU device reservations if the Docker host contains such devices and the Docker Daemon is set accordingly. For this, make sure to install the [prerequisites](../_data/engine-cli/docker_run.yaml) if you have not already done so.

The examples in the following sections focus specifically on providing service containers access to GPU devices with Docker Compose. You can use either `docker-compose` or `docker compose` commands.

### Use of service `runtime` property from Compose v2.3 format (legacy)

Docker Compose v1.27.0+ switched to using the Compose Specification schema which is a combination of all properties from 2.x and 3.x versions. This re-enabled the use of service properties as [runtime](/compose-file/compose-file-v2.md#runtime) to provide GPU access to service containers. However, this does not allow to have control over specific properties of the GPU devices.

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: nvidia/cuda:10.2-base
    command: nvidia-smi
    runtime: nvidia

```

### Enabling GPU access to service containers

Docker Compose v1.28.0+ allows to define GPU reservations using the [device](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#devices) structure defined in the Compose Specification. This provides more granular control over a GPU reservation as custom values can be set for the following device properties: 

- [capabilities](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#capabilities) - value specifies as a list of strings (eg. `capabilities: [gpu]`). You must set this field in the Compose file. Otherwise, it returns an error on service deployment.
- [count](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#count) - value specified as an int or the value `all` representing the number of GPU devices that should be reserved ( providing the host holds that number of GPUs).
- [device_ids](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#device_ids) - value specified as a list of strings representing GPU device IDs from the host. You can find the device ID in the output of `nvidia-smi` on the host.
- [driver](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#driver) - value specified as a string (eg. `driver: 'nvidia'`)
- [options](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#options) - key-value pairs representing driver specific options.


> ** Note **
>
> You must set the `capabilities` field. Otherwise, it returns an error on service deployment.
>
> `count` and `device_ids` are mutually exclusive. You must only define one field at a time.

For more information on these properties, see the `deploy` section in the [Compose Specification](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#devices).


Example of a Compose file for running a service with access to 1 GPU device:

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: nvidia/cuda:10.2-base
    command: nvidia-smi
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            count: 1
            capabilities: [gpu, utility]
```
Run with Docker Compose:

```sh
$ docker-compose up
Creating network "gpu_default" with the default driver
Creating gpu_test_1 ... done
Attaching to gpu_test_1    
test_1  | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
test_1  | | NVIDIA-SMI 450.80.02    Driver Version: 450.80.02    CUDA Version: 11.1     |
test_1  | |-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
test_1  | | GPU  Name        Persistence-M| Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
test_1  | | Fan  Temp  Perf  Pwr:Usage/Cap|         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
test_1  | |                               |                      |               MIG M. |
test_1  | |===============================+======================+======================|
test_1  | |   0  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1E.0 Off |                    0 |
test_1  | | N/A   23C    P8     9W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
test_1  | |                               |                      |                  N/A |
test_1  | +-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
test_1  |                                                                                
test_1  | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
test_1  | | Processes:                                                                  |
test_1  | |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                  GPU Memory |
test_1  | |        ID   ID                                                   Usage      |
test_1  | |=============================================================================|
test_1  | |  No running processes found                                                 |
test_1  | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
gpu_test_1 exited with code 0

```

If no `count` or `device_ids` are set, all GPUs available on the host are going to be used by default.

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: tensorflow/tensorflow:latest-gpu
    command: python -c "import tensorflow as tf;tf.test.gpu_device_name()"
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
          - capabilities: [gpu]
```
```sh
$ docker-compose up
Creating network "gpu_default" with the default driver
Creating gpu_test_1 ... done
Attaching to gpu_test_1
test_1  | I tensorflow/stream_executor/platform/default/dso_loader.cc:48] Successfully opened dynamic library libcudart.so.10.1
.....
test_1  | I tensorflow/core/common_runtime/gpu/gpu_device.cc:1402]
Created TensorFlow device (/device:GPU:0 with 13970 MB memory) -> physical GPU (device: 0, name: Tesla T4, pci bus id: 0000:00:1e.0, compute capability: 7.5)
test_1  | /device:GPU:0
gpu_test_1 exited with code 0
```

On machines hosting multiple GPUs, `device_ids` field can be set to target specific GPU devices and `count` can be used to limit the number of GPU devices assigned to a service container. If `count` exceeds the number of available GPUs on the host, the deployment will error out.

```
$ nvidia-smi   
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NVIDIA-SMI 450.80.02    Driver Version: 450.80.02    CUDA Version: 11.0     |
|-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| GPU  Name        Persistence-M| Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
| Fan  Temp  Perf  Pwr:Usage/Cap|         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
|                               |                      |               MIG M. |
|===============================+======================+======================|
|   0  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1B.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   72C    P8    12W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|   1  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1C.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   67C    P8    11W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|   2  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1D.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   74C    P8    12W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|   3  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1E.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   62C    P8    11W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
```
To enable access only to GPU-0 and GPU-3 devices:

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: tensorflow/tensorflow:latest-gpu
    command: python -c "import tensorflow as tf;tf.test.gpu_device_name()"
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            device_ids: ['0', '3']
            capabilities: [gpu]

```

```sh
$ docker-compose up
...
Created TensorFlow device (/device:GPU:0 with 13970 MB memory -> physical GPU (device: 0, name: Tesla T4, pci bus id: 0000:00:1b.0, compute capability: 7.5)
...
Created TensorFlow device (/device:GPU:1 with 13970 MB memory) -> physical GPU (device: 1, name: Tesla T4, pci bus id: 0000:00:1e.0, compute capability: 7.5)
...
gpu_test_1 exited with code 0
```

Commit message:

Update the note format
Added target=blank to enable external links to open in a new tab.

compose/gpu-support.md, after:

---
description: GPU support in Compose
keywords: documentation, docs, docker, compose, GPU access, NVIDIA, samples
title: Enabling GPU access with Compose
---

Compose services can define GPU device reservations if the Docker host contains such devices and the Docker Daemon is set accordingly. For this, make sure to install the [prerequisites](../_data/engine-cli/docker_run.yaml) if you have not already done so.

The examples in the following sections focus specifically on providing service containers access to GPU devices with Docker Compose. You can use either `docker-compose` or `docker compose` commands.

### Use of service `runtime` property from Compose v2.3 format (legacy)

Docker Compose v1.27.0+ switched to using the Compose Specification schema which is a combination of all properties from 2.x and 3.x versions. This re-enabled the use of service properties as [runtime](/compose-file/compose-file-v2.md#runtime) to provide GPU access to service containers. However, this does not allow to have control over specific properties of the GPU devices.

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: nvidia/cuda:10.2-base
    command: nvidia-smi
    runtime: nvidia

```

### Enabling GPU access to service containers

Docker Compose v1.28.0+ allows to define GPU reservations using the [device](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#devices) structure defined in the Compose Specification. This provides more granular control over a GPU reservation as custom values can be set for the following device properties: 

- [capabilities](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#capabilities){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} - value specifies as a list of strings (eg. `capabilities: [gpu]`). You must set this field in the Compose file. Otherwise, it returns an error on service deployment.
- [count](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#count){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} - value specified as an int or the value `all` representing the number of GPU devices that should be reserved ( providing the host holds that number of GPUs).
- [device_ids](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#device_ids){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} - value specified as a list of strings representing GPU device IDs from the host. You can find the device ID in the output of `nvidia-smi` on the host.
- [driver](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#driver){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} - value specified as a string (eg. `driver: 'nvidia'`)
- [options](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#options){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} - key-value pairs representing driver specific options.


> **Note**
>
> You must set the `capabilities` field. Otherwise, it returns an error on service deployment.
>
> `count` and `device_ids` are mutually exclusive. You must only define one field at a time.

For more information on these properties, see the `deploy` section in the [Compose Specification](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/deploy.md#devices){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.


Example of a Compose file for running a service with access to 1 GPU device:

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: nvidia/cuda:10.2-base
    command: nvidia-smi
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            count: 1
            capabilities: [gpu, utility]
```
Run with Docker Compose:

```sh
$ docker-compose up
Creating network "gpu_default" with the default driver
Creating gpu_test_1 ... done
Attaching to gpu_test_1    
test_1  | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
test_1  | | NVIDIA-SMI 450.80.02    Driver Version: 450.80.02    CUDA Version: 11.1     |
test_1  | |-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
test_1  | | GPU  Name        Persistence-M| Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
test_1  | | Fan  Temp  Perf  Pwr:Usage/Cap|         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
test_1  | |                               |                      |               MIG M. |
test_1  | |===============================+======================+======================|
test_1  | |   0  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1E.0 Off |                    0 |
test_1  | | N/A   23C    P8     9W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
test_1  | |                               |                      |                  N/A |
test_1  | +-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
test_1  |                                                                                
test_1  | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
test_1  | | Processes:                                                                  |
test_1  | |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                  GPU Memory |
test_1  | |        ID   ID                                                   Usage      |
test_1  | |=============================================================================|
test_1  | |  No running processes found                                                 |
test_1  | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
gpu_test_1 exited with code 0

```

If no `count` or `device_ids` are set, all GPUs available on the host are going to be used by default.

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: tensorflow/tensorflow:latest-gpu
    command: python -c "import tensorflow as tf;tf.test.gpu_device_name()"
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
          - capabilities: [gpu]
```
```sh
$ docker-compose up
Creating network "gpu_default" with the default driver
Creating gpu_test_1 ... done
Attaching to gpu_test_1
test_1  | I tensorflow/stream_executor/platform/default/dso_loader.cc:48] Successfully opened dynamic library libcudart.so.10.1
.....
test_1  | I tensorflow/core/common_runtime/gpu/gpu_device.cc:1402]
Created TensorFlow device (/device:GPU:0 with 13970 MB memory) -> physical GPU (device: 0, name: Tesla T4, pci bus id: 0000:00:1e.0, compute capability: 7.5)
test_1  | /device:GPU:0
gpu_test_1 exited with code 0
```

On machines hosting multiple GPUs, `device_ids` field can be set to target specific GPU devices and `count` can be used to limit the number of GPU devices assigned to a service container. If `count` exceeds the number of available GPUs on the host, the deployment will error out.

```
$ nvidia-smi   
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NVIDIA-SMI 450.80.02    Driver Version: 450.80.02    CUDA Version: 11.0     |
|-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| GPU  Name        Persistence-M| Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
| Fan  Temp  Perf  Pwr:Usage/Cap|         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
|                               |                      |               MIG M. |
|===============================+======================+======================|
|   0  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1B.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   72C    P8    12W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|   1  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1C.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   67C    P8    11W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|   2  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1D.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   74C    P8    12W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|   3  Tesla T4            On   | 00000000:00:1E.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   62C    P8    11W /  70W |      0MiB / 15109MiB |      0%      Default |
|                               |                      |                  N/A |
+-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
```
To enable access only to GPU-0 and GPU-3 devices:

```yaml
services:
  test:
    image: tensorflow/tensorflow:latest-gpu
    command: python -c "import tensorflow as tf;tf.test.gpu_device_name()"
    deploy:
      resources:
        reservations:
          devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            device_ids: ['0', '3']
            capabilities: [gpu]

```

```sh
$ docker-compose up
...
Created TensorFlow device (/device:GPU:0 with 13970 MB memory -> physical GPU (device: 0, name: Tesla T4, pci bus id: 0000:00:1b.0, compute capability: 7.5)
...
Created TensorFlow device (/device:GPU:1 with 13970 MB memory) -> physical GPU (device: 1, name: Tesla T4, pci bus id: 0000:00:1e.0, compute capability: 7.5)
...
gpu_test_1 exited with code 0
```
