compose/install.md, before:

---
description: How to install Docker Compose
keywords: compose, orchestration, install, installation, docker, documentation
title: Install Docker Compose
toc_max: 2
---

> **Accelerating new features in Docker Desktop**
>
> Docker Desktop helps you build, share, and run containers easily on Mac and Windows as you do on Linux. Docker handles the complex setup and allows you to focus on writing the code. Thanks to the positive support we received on the [subscription updates](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"}, we've started working on [Docker Desktop for Linux](https://www.docker.com/blog/accelerating-new-features-in-docker-desktop/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"} which is the second-most popular feature request in our public roadmap. If you are interested in early access, sign up for our [Developer Preview program](https://www.docker.com/community/get-involved/developer-preview){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"}.
{: .important}

This page contains information on how to install Docker Compose. You can run Compose on macOS, Windows, and 64-bit Linux.

## Prerequisites

Docker Compose relies on Docker Engine for any meaningful work, so make sure you
have Docker Engine installed either locally or remote, depending on your setup.

- On desktop systems like Docker Desktop for Mac and Windows, Docker Compose is
included as part of those desktop installs.

- On Linux systems, first install the
[Docker Engine](../engine/install/index.md#server){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
for your OS as described on the Get Docker page, then come back here for
instructions on installing Compose on
Linux systems.

- To run Compose as a non-root user, see [Manage Docker as a non-root user](../engine/install/linux-postinstall.md).

## Install Compose

Follow the instructions below to install Compose on Mac, Windows, Windows Server
2016, or Linux systems, or find out about alternatives like using the `pip`
Python package manager or installing Compose as a container.

> Install a different version
>
> The instructions below outline installation of the current stable release
> (**v{{site.compose_version}}**) of Compose. To install a different version of
> Compose, replace the given release number with the one that you want. For instructions to install Compose 2.0.0 on Linux, see [Install Compose 2.0.0 on Linux](cli-command.md#install-on-linux).
>
> Compose releases are also listed and available for direct download on the
> [Compose repository release page on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
> To install a **pre-release** of Compose, refer to the [install pre-release builds](#install-pre-release-builds)
> section.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">
<li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#macOS">Mac</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#windows">Windows</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#windows-server">Windows Server</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#linux">Linux</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#alternatives">Alternative install options</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#pre-release">Pre-release builds</a></li>
</ul>
<div class="tab-content">
<div id="macOS" class="tab-pane fade in active" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on macOS

**Docker Desktop for Mac** includes Compose along
with other Docker apps, so Mac users do not need to install Compose separately.
For installation instructions, see [Install Docker Desktop on Mac](../desktop/mac/install.md).

</div>
<div id="windows" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on Windows desktop systems

**Docker Desktop for Windows** includes Compose
along with other Docker apps, so most Windows users do not need to
install Compose separately. For install instructions, see [Install Docker Desktop on Windows](../desktop/windows/install.md).

If you are running the Docker daemon and client directly on Microsoft
Windows Server, follow the instructions in the Windows Server tab.

</div>
<div id="windows-server" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on Windows Server

Follow these instructions if you are running the Docker daemon and client directly
on Microsoft Windows Server and want to install Docker Compose.


1.  Start an "elevated" PowerShell (run it as administrator).
    Search for PowerShell, right-click, and choose
    **Run as administrator**. When asked if you want to allow this app
    to make changes to your device, click **Yes**.
    
2.  In PowerShell, since GitHub now requires TLS1.2, run the following:
    
    ```powershell  
    [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
    ```

    Then run the following command to download the current stable release of
    Compose (v{{site.compose_version}}):

    ```powershell
    Invoke-WebRequest "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/{{site.compose_version}}/docker-compose-Windows-x86_64.exe" -UseBasicParsing -OutFile $Env:ProgramFiles\Docker\docker-compose.exe
    ```

**Note**: On Windows Server 2019, you can add the Compose executable to `$Env:ProgramFiles\Docker`. Because this directory is  registered in the system `PATH`, you can run the `docker-compose --version` command on the subsequent step with no additional configuration.

    > To install a different version of Compose, substitute `{{site.compose_version}}`
    > with the version of Compose you want to use.

3.  Test the installation.

    ```powershell
    docker-compose --version

    docker-compose version {{site.compose_version}}, build 01110ad01
    ```

</div>
<div id="linux" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on Linux systems

On Linux, you can download the Docker Compose binary from the
[Compose repository release page on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
Follow the instructions from the link, which involve running the `curl` command
in your terminal to download the binaries. These step-by-step instructions are
also included below.

> For `alpine`, the following dependency packages are needed:
> `py-pip`, `python3-dev`, `libffi-dev`, `openssl-dev`, `gcc`, `libc-dev`, `rust`, `cargo` and `make`.
{: .important}

1.  Run this command to download the current stable release of Docker Compose:

    ```console
    $ sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/{{site.compose_version}}/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    ```

    > To install a different version of Compose, substitute `{{site.compose_version}}`
    > with the version of Compose you want to use.

    If you have problems installing with `curl`, see
    [Alternative Install Options](install.md#alternative-install-options) tab above.

2.  Apply executable permissions to the binary:

    ```console
    $ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    ```
    
> **Note**: If the command `docker-compose` fails after installation, check your path.
> You can also create a symbolic link to `/usr/bin` or any other directory in your path.

For example:

```console
$ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/docker-compose /usr/bin/docker-compose
```

3.  Optionally, install [command completion](completion.md) for the
    `bash` and `zsh` shell.

4.  Test the installation.

    ```console
    $ docker-compose --version
    docker-compose version {{site.compose_version}}, build 1110ad01
    ```

</div>
<div id="alternatives" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Alternative install options

- [Install using pip](#install-using-pip)
- [Install as a container](#install-as-a-container)

#### Install using pip

> For `alpine`, the following dependency packages are needed:
> `py-pip`, `python3-dev`, `libffi-dev`, `openssl-dev`, `gcc`, `libc-dev`, `rust`, `cargo`, and `make`.
{: .important}

Compose can be installed from
[pypi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/docker-compose) using `pip`. If you install
using `pip`, we recommend that you use a
[virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) because many operating
systems have python system packages that conflict with docker-compose
dependencies. See the [virtualenv
tutorial](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/) to get
started.

```console
$ pip3 install docker-compose
```

If you are not using virtualenv,

```console
$ sudo pip install docker-compose
```

> pip version 6.0 or greater is required.

#### Install as a container

Compose can also be run inside a container, from a small bash script wrapper. To
install compose as a container run this command:

```console
$ sudo curl -L --fail https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/{{site.compose_version}}/run.sh -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

</div>

<div id="pre-release" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install pre-release builds

If you're interested in trying out a pre-release build, you can download release
candidates from the [Compose repository release page on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
Follow the instructions from the link, which involves running the `curl` command
in your terminal to download the binaries.

Pre-releases built from the "master" branch are also available for download at
[https://dl.bintray.com/docker-compose/master/](https://dl.bintray.com/docker-compose/master/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

> Pre-release builds allow you to try out new features before they are released,
> but may be less stable.
{: .important}

</div>
</div>

----

## Upgrading

If you're upgrading from Compose 1.2 or earlier, remove or
migrate your existing containers after upgrading Compose. This is because, as of
version 1.3, Compose uses Docker labels to keep track of containers, and your
containers need to be recreated to add the labels.

If Compose detects containers that were created without labels, it refuses
to run, so that you don't end up with two sets of them. If you want to keep using
your existing containers (for example, because they have data volumes you want
to preserve), you can use Compose 1.5.x to migrate them with the following
command:

```console
$ docker-compose migrate-to-labels
```

Alternatively, if you're not worried about keeping them, you can remove them.
Compose just creates new ones.

```console
$ docker container rm -f -v myapp_web_1 myapp_db_1 ...
```

## Uninstallation

To uninstall Docker Compose if you installed using `curl`:

```console
$ sudo rm /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

To uninstall Docker Compose if you installed using `pip`:

```console
$ pip uninstall docker-compose
```

> Got a "Permission denied" error?
>
> If you get a "Permission denied" error using either of the above
> methods, you probably do not have the proper permissions to remove
> `docker-compose`. To force the removal, prepend `sudo` to either of the above
> commands and run again.


## Where to go next

- [User guide](index.md)
- [Getting Started](gettingstarted.md)
- [Command line reference](reference/index.md)
- [Compose file reference](compose-file/index.md)
- [Sample apps with Compose](samples-for-compose.md)

Commit message:

Add a link to Compose 2.0 install on Linux
Signed-off-by: Usha Mandya <usha.mandya@docker.com>

compose/install.md, after:

---
description: How to install Docker Compose
keywords: compose, orchestration, install, installation, docker, documentation
title: Install Docker Compose
toc_max: 2
---

> **Accelerating new features in Docker Desktop**
>
> Docker Desktop helps you build, share, and run containers easily on Mac and Windows as you do on Linux. Docker handles the complex setup and allows you to focus on writing the code. Thanks to the positive support we received on the [subscription updates](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"}, we've started working on [Docker Desktop for Linux](https://www.docker.com/blog/accelerating-new-features-in-docker-desktop/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"} which is the second-most popular feature request in our public roadmap. If you are interested in early access, sign up for our [Developer Preview program](https://www.docker.com/community/get-involved/developer-preview){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"}.
{: .important}

This page contains information on how to install Docker Compose. You can run Compose on macOS, Windows, and 64-bit Linux.

## Prerequisites

Docker Compose relies on Docker Engine for any meaningful work, so make sure you
have Docker Engine installed either locally or remote, depending on your setup.

- On desktop systems like Docker Desktop for Mac and Windows, Docker Compose is
included as part of those desktop installs.

- On Linux systems, first install the
[Docker Engine](../engine/install/index.md#server){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
for your OS as described on the Get Docker page, then come back here for
instructions on installing Compose on
Linux systems.

- To run Compose as a non-root user, see [Manage Docker as a non-root user](../engine/install/linux-postinstall.md).

## Install Compose

Follow the instructions below to install Compose on Mac, Windows, Windows Server
2016, or Linux systems, or find out about alternatives like using the `pip`
Python package manager or installing Compose as a container.

> Install a different version
>
> The instructions below outline installation of the current stable release
> (**v{{site.compose_version}}**) of Compose. To install a different version of
> Compose, replace the given release number with the one that you want. For instructions to install Compose 2.0.0 on Linux, see [Install Compose 2.0.0 on Linux](cli-command.md#install-on-linux).
>
> Compose releases are also listed and available for direct download on the
> [Compose repository release page on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
> To install a **pre-release** of Compose, refer to the [install pre-release builds](#install-pre-release-builds)
> section.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">
<li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#macOS">Mac</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#windows">Windows</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#windows-server">Windows Server</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#linux">Linux</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#alternatives">Alternative install options</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#pre-release">Pre-release builds</a></li>
</ul>
<div class="tab-content">
<div id="macOS" class="tab-pane fade in active" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on macOS

**Docker Desktop for Mac** includes Compose along
with other Docker apps, so Mac users do not need to install Compose separately.
For installation instructions, see [Install Docker Desktop on Mac](../desktop/mac/install.md).

</div>
<div id="windows" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on Windows desktop systems

**Docker Desktop for Windows** includes Compose
along with other Docker apps, so most Windows users do not need to
install Compose separately. For install instructions, see [Install Docker Desktop on Windows](../desktop/windows/install.md).

If you are running the Docker daemon and client directly on Microsoft
Windows Server, follow the instructions in the Windows Server tab.

</div>
<div id="windows-server" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on Windows Server

Follow these instructions if you are running the Docker daemon and client directly
on Microsoft Windows Server and want to install Docker Compose.


1.  Start an "elevated" PowerShell (run it as administrator).
    Search for PowerShell, right-click, and choose
    **Run as administrator**. When asked if you want to allow this app
    to make changes to your device, click **Yes**.
    
2.  In PowerShell, since GitHub now requires TLS1.2, run the following:
    
    ```powershell  
    [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
    ```

    Then run the following command to download the current stable release of
    Compose (v{{site.compose_version}}):

    ```powershell
    Invoke-WebRequest "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/{{site.compose_version}}/docker-compose-Windows-x86_64.exe" -UseBasicParsing -OutFile $Env:ProgramFiles\Docker\docker-compose.exe
    ```

**Note**: On Windows Server 2019, you can add the Compose executable to `$Env:ProgramFiles\Docker`. Because this directory is  registered in the system `PATH`, you can run the `docker-compose --version` command on the subsequent step with no additional configuration.

    > To install a different version of Compose, substitute `{{site.compose_version}}`
    > with the version of Compose you want to use.

3.  Test the installation.

    ```powershell
    docker-compose --version

    docker-compose version {{site.compose_version}}, build 01110ad01
    ```

</div>
<div id="linux" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install Compose on Linux systems

On Linux, you can download the Docker Compose binary from the
[Compose repository release page on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
Follow the instructions from the link, which involve running the `curl` command
in your terminal to download the binaries. These step-by-step instructions are
also included below.

> For `alpine`, the following dependency packages are needed:
> `py-pip`, `python3-dev`, `libffi-dev`, `openssl-dev`, `gcc`, `libc-dev`, `rust`, `cargo` and `make`.
{: .important}

1.  Run this command to download the current stable release of Docker Compose:

    ```console
    $ sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/{{site.compose_version}}/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    ```

    > To install a different version of Compose, substitute `{{site.compose_version}}`
    > with the version of Compose you want to use. For instructions on how to
    > install Compose `{{site.compose_v2_version}}` on Linux, see [Install
    > Compose 2.0.0 on Linux](../cli-command#install-on-linux)

    If you have problems installing with `curl`, see
    [Alternative Install Options](install.md#alternative-install-options) tab above.

2.  Apply executable permissions to the binary:

    ```console
    $ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    ```

> **Note**:
>
> If the command `docker-compose` fails after installation, check your path.
> You can also create a symbolic link to `/usr/bin` or any other directory in your path.

For example:

```console
$ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/docker-compose /usr/bin/docker-compose
```

3.  Optionally, install [command completion](completion.md) for the
    `bash` and `zsh` shell.

4.  Test the installation.

    ```console
    $ docker-compose --version
    docker-compose version {{site.compose_version}}, build 1110ad01
    ```

</div>
<div id="alternatives" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Alternative install options

- [Install using pip](#install-using-pip)
- [Install as a container](#install-as-a-container)

#### Install using pip

> For `alpine`, the following dependency packages are needed:
> `py-pip`, `python3-dev`, `libffi-dev`, `openssl-dev`, `gcc`, `libc-dev`, `rust`, `cargo`, and `make`.
{: .important}

Compose can be installed from
[pypi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/docker-compose) using `pip`. If you install
using `pip`, we recommend that you use a
[virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) because many operating
systems have python system packages that conflict with docker-compose
dependencies. See the [virtualenv
tutorial](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/) to get
started.

```console
$ pip3 install docker-compose
```

If you are not using virtualenv,

```console
$ sudo pip install docker-compose
```

> pip version 6.0 or greater is required.

#### Install as a container

Compose can also be run inside a container, from a small bash script wrapper. To
install compose as a container run this command:

```console
$ sudo curl -L --fail https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/{{site.compose_version}}/run.sh -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

</div>

<div id="pre-release" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Install pre-release builds

If you're interested in trying out a pre-release build, you can download release
candidates from the [Compose repository release page on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
Follow the instructions from the link, which involves running the `curl` command
in your terminal to download the binaries.

Pre-releases built from the "master" branch are also available for download at
[https://dl.bintray.com/docker-compose/master/](https://dl.bintray.com/docker-compose/master/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

> Pre-release builds allow you to try out new features before they are released,
> but may be less stable.
{: .important}

</div>
</div>

----

## Upgrading

If you're upgrading from Compose 1.2 or earlier, remove or
migrate your existing containers after upgrading Compose. This is because, as of
version 1.3, Compose uses Docker labels to keep track of containers, and your
containers need to be recreated to add the labels.

If Compose detects containers that were created without labels, it refuses
to run, so that you don't end up with two sets of them. If you want to keep using
your existing containers (for example, because they have data volumes you want
to preserve), you can use Compose 1.5.x to migrate them with the following
command:

```console
$ docker-compose migrate-to-labels
```

Alternatively, if you're not worried about keeping them, you can remove them.
Compose just creates new ones.

```console
$ docker container rm -f -v myapp_web_1 myapp_db_1 ...
```

## Uninstallation

To uninstall Docker Compose if you installed using `curl`:

```console
$ sudo rm /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

To uninstall Docker Compose if you installed using `pip`:

```console
$ pip uninstall docker-compose
```

> Got a "Permission denied" error?
>
> If you get a "Permission denied" error using either of the above
> methods, you probably do not have the proper permissions to remove
> `docker-compose`. To force the removal, prepend `sudo` to either of the above
> commands and run again.


## Where to go next

- [User guide](index.md)
- [Getting Started](gettingstarted.md)
- [Command line reference](reference/index.md)
- [Compose file reference](compose-file/index.md)
- [Sample apps with Compose](samples-for-compose.md)
