docs/sources/installation/archlinux.md, before:

page_title: Installation on Arch Linux
page_description: Installation instructions for Docker on ArchLinux.
page_keywords: arch linux, virtualization, docker, documentation, installation

# Arch Linux

Installing on Arch Linux can be handled via the package in community:

 - [docker](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/docker/)

or the following AUR package:

 - [docker-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/docker-git/)

The docker package will install the latest tagged version of docker. The
docker-git package will build from the current master branch.

## Dependencies

Docker depends on several packages which are specified as dependencies
in the packages. The core dependencies are:

 - bridge-utils
 - device-mapper
 - iproute2
 - lxc
 - sqlite

## Installation

For the normal package a simple

    pacman -S docker

is all that is needed.

For the AUR package execute:

    yaourt -S docker-git

The instructions here assume **yaourt** is installed. See [Arch User
Repository](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages)
for information on building and installing packages from the AUR if you
have not done so before.

## Starting Docker

There is a systemd service unit created for docker. To start the docker
service:

    $ sudo systemctl start docker

To start on system boot:

    $ sudo systemctl enable docker

## Custom daemon options

If you need to add an HTTP Proxy, set a different directory or partition for the
Docker runtime files, or make other customizations, read our systemd article to
learn how to [customize your systemd Docker daemon options](/articles/systemd/).

Commit message:

Docs adding uninstall instructions
Signed-off-by: Megan Kostick <mkostick@us.ibm.com>

docs/sources/installation/archlinux.md, after:

page_title: Installation on Arch Linux
page_description: Installation instructions for Docker on ArchLinux.
page_keywords: arch linux, virtualization, docker, documentation, installation

# Arch Linux

Installing on Arch Linux can be handled via the package in community:

 - [docker](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/docker/)

or the following AUR package:

 - [docker-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/docker-git/)

The docker package will install the latest tagged version of docker. The
docker-git package will build from the current master branch.

## Dependencies

Docker depends on several packages which are specified as dependencies
in the packages. The core dependencies are:

 - bridge-utils
 - device-mapper
 - iproute2
 - lxc
 - sqlite

## Installation

For the normal package a simple

    $ sudo pacman -S docker

is all that is needed.

For the AUR package execute:

    $ sudo yaourt -S docker-git

The instructions here assume **yaourt** is installed. See [Arch User
Repository](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages)
for information on building and installing packages from the AUR if you
have not done so before.

## Starting Docker

There is a systemd service unit created for docker. To start the docker
service:

    $ sudo systemctl start docker

To start on system boot:

    $ sudo systemctl enable docker

## Custom daemon options

If you need to add an HTTP Proxy, set a different directory or partition for the
Docker runtime files, or make other customizations, read our systemd article to
learn how to [customize your systemd Docker daemon options](/articles/systemd/).

## Uninstallation

To uninstall the Docker package:

    $ sudo pacman -R docker

To uninstall the Docker package and dependencies that are no longer needed:

    $ sudo pacman -Rns docker

The above commands will not remove images, containers, volumes, or user created
configuration files on your host. If you wish to delete all images, containers,
and volumes run the following command:

    $ rm -rf /var/lib/docker

You must delete the user created configuration files manually.
