---
description: Overview of persisting data in containers
title: Manage data in Docker
keywords: storage, persistence, data persistence, volumes, mounts, bind mounts
---

It is possible to store data within the writable layer of a container, but the
data won't persist when that container is no longer running, and it can be
difficult to get the data out of the container if another process needs it. In
addition, a container's writable layer is tightly coupled to the host machine
where the container is running.

A better way to persist data generated by and used by containers is to use
_data volumes_. A data volume is a directory usually located on the Docker host
and made available to containers at runtime. A data volume may also be located
remotely or on a cloud provider if you use a volume plugin that supports this.
Most of the information in this topic and linked topics relates to data that is
stored locally on the host machine.

There are three different ways to mount data into a container:

- **[Bind mounts](bind-mounts.md)**: Available since the early days of Docker.
  Bind mounts have limited functionality compared to volumes. When you use a
  bind mount, a file or directory on the _host machine_ is mounted into a
  container. The file or directory is referenced by its full or relative path
  on the host machine. The file or directory does not need to exist on the
  Docker host already. It is created on demand if it does not yet exist. Bind
  mounts are very performant, but they rely on the host machine's filesystem
  having a specific directory structure available. If you are developing new
  Docker applications, consider using named volumes instead. You can't use
  Docker CLI commands to directly manage bind mounts.

- **[Volumes](volumes.md)**: Created and managed by Docker. You can create a
  volume explicitly using the `docker volume create` command, or Docker can
  create a volume during container or service creation. A given volume can be
  mounted into multiple containers simultaneously. When no running container
  is using a volume, the volume is still available to Docker and is not removed
  automatically. You can remove unused volumes using `docker volume prune`.

  When you mount a volume, it may be **named** or **anonymous**. Anonymous
  volumes are not given an explicit name when they are first mounted into a
  container, so Docker gives them a random name that is guaranteed to be unique
  within a given Docker host. Besides the name, named and anonymous volumes
  behave in the same ways.

  Volumes also support the use of _volume drivers_, which allow you to store
  your data on remote hosts or cloud providers, among other possibilities.

- **[tmpfs mounts](tmpfs.md)**: A `tmpfs` mount is not persisted on disk, either
  on the Docker host or within a container. It can be used by a container during
  the lifetime of the container, to store non-persistent state or sensitive
  information. For instance, internally, swarm services use `tmpfs` mounts to
  mount [secrets](/engine/swarm/secrets.md) into a service's containers.

Bind mounts and volumes can both mounted into containers using the `-v` or
`--volume` flag, but the syntax for each is slightly different. For `tmpfs`
mounts, you can use the `--tmpfs` flag. However, in Docker 17.06 and higher,
we recommend using the `--mount` flag for both containers and services, for
bind mounts, volumes, or `tmpfs` mounts, as the syntax is more clear.

## Good use cases for volumes

Volumes are the preferred way to persist data in Docker containers and services.
Some use cases for volumes include:

- Sharing data among multiple running containers. If you don't explicitly create
  it, a volume is created the first time it is mounted into a container. When
  that container stops or is removed, the volume still exists. Multiple
  containers can mount the same volume simultaneously, either read-write or
  read-only. Volumes are only removed when you explicitly remove them.

- When the Docker host is not guaranteed to have a given directory or file
  structure. Volumes help you decouple the configuration of the Docker host
  from the container runtime.

- When you want to store your container's data on a remote host or a cloud
  provider, rather than locally.

- When you need to be able to back up, restore, or migrate data from one Docker
  host to another, volumes are a better choice. You can stop Docker and back up
  the Docker data directory using filesystem tools.

## Good use cases for bind mounts

In general, you should use volumes where possible. Bind mounts are appropriate
for the following types of use case:

- Sharing configuration files from the host machine to containers. This is how
  Docker provides DNS resolution to containers by default, by mounting
  `/etc/resolv.conf` from the host machine into each container.

- Sharing source code or build artifacts between a development environment on
  the Docker host and a container. For instance, you may mount a Maven `target/`
  directory into a container, and each time you build the Maven project on the
  Docker host, the container gets access to the rebuilt artifacts.

  If you use Docker for development this way, your production Dockerfile would
  copy the production-ready artifacts directly into the image, rather than
  relying on a bind mount.

- When the file or directory structure of the Docker host is guaranteed to be
  consistent with the bind mounts the containers require.

## Good use cases for tmpfs mounts

`tmpfs` mounts are best used for cases when you do not want the data to persist
either on the host machine or within the container. This may be for security
reasons or to protect the performance of the container when your application
needs to write a large volume of non-persistent state data.

## Tips for using bind mounts or volumes

If you use either bind mounts or volumes, keep the following in mind:

- If the container's image contains data at the mount point, this data will be
  propagated into the bind mount or volume. This is a good way to pre-populate
  data that the Docker host needs (in the case of bind mounts) or that another
  container needs (in the case of volumes).

- If you mount a bind mount or volume into a directory in the container in which
  files or directories have already been written, these files or directories are
  obscured by the mount, just as if you saved files into `/mnt` on a Linux host
  and then mounted a USB drive into `/mnt`. The contents of `/mnt` would be
  obscured by the contents of the USB drive until the USB drive were unmounted.

## Next steps

- Learn more about [volumes](volumes.md).
- Learn more about [bind mounts](bind-mounts.md).
- Learn more about [tmpfs mounts](tmpfs.md).
- Learn more about [storage drivers](/engine/userguide/storagedriver.md), which
  are not related to bind mounts or volumes, but allow you to store data in a
  container's writable layer.