desktop/mac/install.md, before:

---
description: How to install Docker Desktop on Mac
keywords: mac, install, download, run, docker, local
title: Install Docker Desktop on Mac
redirect_from:
- /docker-for-mac/install/
---

> **Update to the Docker Desktop terms**
>
> Commercial use of Docker Desktop in larger enterprises (more than 250
> employees OR more than $10 million USD in annual revenue) now requires a paid
> subscription. The grace period for those that will require a paid subscription
> ends on January 31, 2022. [Learn
> more](https://www.docker.com/blog/the-grace-period-for-the-docker-subscription-service-agreement-ends-soon-heres-what-you-need-to-know/){:
 target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"}.
{: .important}

Welcome to Docker Desktop for Mac. This page contains information about Docker Desktop for Mac system requirements, download URLs, instructions to install and update Docker Desktop for Mac.

> Download Docker Desktop for Mac
>
> [Mac with Intel chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/amd64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-amd64){: .button .primary-btn }
> [Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){: .button .primary-btn }

## System requirements

Your Mac must meet the following requirements to install Docker Desktop successfully.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">
<li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#mac-intel">Mac with Intel chip</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#mac-apple-silicon">Mac with Apple silicon</a></li>
</ul>
<div class="tab-content">
<div id="mac-intel" class="tab-pane fade in active" markdown="1">

### Mac with Intel chip

- **macOS must be version 10.15 or newer**. That is, Catalina, Big Sur, or Monterey. We recommend upgrading to the latest version of macOS.

  If you experience any issues after upgrading your macOS to version 10.15, you must install the latest version of Docker Desktop to be compatible with this version of macOS.

  > **Note**
  >
  > Docker supports Docker Desktop on the most recent versions of macOS. That is, the current release of macOS and the previous two releases. As new major versions of macOS are made generally available, Docker stops supporting the oldest version and supports the newest version of macOS (in addition to the previous two releases). Docker Desktop currently supports macOS Catalina, macOS Big Sur, and macOS Monterey.

- At least 4 GB of RAM.

- VirtualBox prior to version 4.3.30 must not be installed as it is not compatible with Docker Desktop.

</div>
<div id="mac-apple-silicon" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Mac with Apple silicon

- Beginning with Docker Desktop 4.3.0, we have removed the hard requirement to install **Rosetta 2**. There are a few optional command line tools that still require Rosetta 2 when using Darwin/AMD64. See the [Known issues section](apple-silicon.md#known-issues). However, to get the best experience, we recommend that you install Rosetta 2. To install Rosetta 2 manually from the command line, run the following command:

  ```console
  $ softwareupdate --install-rosetta
  ```

 For more information, see [Docker Desktop for Apple silicon](apple-silicon.md).

</div>
</div>

## Install and run Docker Desktop on Mac

### Install interactively

1. Double-click `Docker.dmg` to open the installer, then drag the Docker icon to
    the Applications folder.

      ![Install Docker app](images/docker-app-drag.png)

2. Double-click `Docker.app` in the Applications folder to start Docker. In the example below, the Applications folder is in "grid" view mode.

    ![Docker app in Hockeyapp](images/docker-app-in-apps.png)

3. The Docker menu (![whale menu](images/whale-x.png){: .inline}) displays the Docker Subscription Service Agreement window. It includes a change to the terms of use for Docker Desktop.

    {% include desktop-license-update.md %}

4. Click the checkbox to indicate that you accept the updated terms and then click **Accept** to continue. Docker Desktop starts after you accept the terms.

    > **Important**
    >
    > If you do not agree to the terms, the Docker Desktop application will close and  you can no longer run Docker Desktop on your machine. You can choose to accept the terms at a later date by opening Docker Desktop.
    {: .important}

    For more information, see [Docker Desktop License Agreement](../../subscription/index.md#docker-desktop-license-agreement). We recommend that you also read the [Blog](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_desktop_install_btl"} and [FAQs](https://www.docker.com/pricing/faq){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_desktop_install_btl"} to learn how companies using Docker Desktop may be affected.

### Install from the command line

After downloading `Docker.dmg`, to install Docker Desktop to the Applications folder, run for instance the following commands in a terminal:
```
sudo hdiutil attach Docker.dmg
sudo /Volumes/Docker/Docker.app/Contents/MacOS/install
sudo hdiutil detach /Volumes/Docker
```

The `install` command accepts the following flag:
- `--accept-license`: accepts the [Docker Subscription Service Agreement](https://www.docker.com/legal/docker-subscription-service-agreement) now, rather than requiring it to be accepted when the application is first run

### Quick start guide  
  
  If you've just installed the app, Docker Desktop launches the Quick Start Guide. The tutorial includes a simple exercise to build an example Docker image, run it as a container, push and save the image to Docker Hub.

   ![Docker Quick Start tutorial](images/docker-tutorial-mac.png)

Congratulations! You are now successfully running Docker Desktop. Click the Docker menu (![whale menu](images/whale-x.png){: .inline}) to see
**Preferences** and other options. To run the Quick Start Guide on demand, select the Docker menu and then choose **Quick Start Guide**.

## Updates

{% include desktop-update.md %}

## Uninstall Docker Desktop

To uninstall Docker Desktop from your Mac:

1. From the Docker menu, select **Troubleshoot** and then select **Uninstall**.
2. Click **Uninstall** to confirm your selection.

> **Note**
>
> Uninstalling Docker Desktop destroys Docker containers, images, volumes, and
> other Docker related data local to the machine, and removes the files generated
> by the application. Refer to the [back up and restore data](../backup-and-restore.md)
> section to learn how to preserve important data before uninstalling.

## Where to go next

- [Getting started](index.md) provides an overview of Docker Desktop on Mac, basic Docker command examples, how to get help or give feedback, and links to other topics about Docker Desktop on Mac.
- [Docker Desktop for Apple silicon](apple-silicon.md) for detailed information about Docker Desktop for Apple silicon.
- [Troubleshooting](troubleshoot.md) describes common problems, workarounds, how
  to run and submit diagnostics, and submit issues.
- [FAQs](../faqs.md) provide answers to frequently asked questions.
- [Release notes](release-notes/index.md) lists component updates, new features, and improvements associated with Docker Desktop releases.
- [Get started with Docker](../../get-started/index.md) provides a general Docker tutorial.
* [Back up and restore data](../backup-and-restore.md) provides instructions
  on backing up and restoring data related to Docker.

Commit message:

Add documentation for the --allowed-org install flag

desktop/mac/install.md, after:

---
description: How to install Docker Desktop on Mac
keywords: mac, install, download, run, docker, local
title: Install Docker Desktop on Mac
redirect_from:
- /docker-for-mac/install/
---

> **Update to the Docker Desktop terms**
>
> Commercial use of Docker Desktop in larger enterprises (more than 250
> employees OR more than $10 million USD in annual revenue) now requires a paid
> subscription. The grace period for those that will require a paid subscription
> ends on January 31, 2022. [Learn
> more](https://www.docker.com/blog/the-grace-period-for-the-docker-subscription-service-agreement-ends-soon-heres-what-you-need-to-know/){:
 target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_cta"}.
{: .important}

Welcome to Docker Desktop for Mac. This page contains information about Docker Desktop for Mac system requirements, download URLs, instructions to install and update Docker Desktop for Mac.

> Download Docker Desktop for Mac
>
> [Mac with Intel chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/amd64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-amd64){: .button .primary-btn }
> [Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){: .button .primary-btn }

## System requirements

Your Mac must meet the following requirements to install Docker Desktop successfully.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">
<li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#mac-intel">Mac with Intel chip</a></li>
<li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#mac-apple-silicon">Mac with Apple silicon</a></li>
</ul>
<div class="tab-content">
<div id="mac-intel" class="tab-pane fade in active" markdown="1">

### Mac with Intel chip

- **macOS must be version 10.15 or newer**. That is, Catalina, Big Sur, or Monterey. We recommend upgrading to the latest version of macOS.

  If you experience any issues after upgrading your macOS to version 10.15, you must install the latest version of Docker Desktop to be compatible with this version of macOS.

  > **Note**
  >
  > Docker supports Docker Desktop on the most recent versions of macOS. That is, the current release of macOS and the previous two releases. As new major versions of macOS are made generally available, Docker stops supporting the oldest version and supports the newest version of macOS (in addition to the previous two releases). Docker Desktop currently supports macOS Catalina, macOS Big Sur, and macOS Monterey.

- At least 4 GB of RAM.

- VirtualBox prior to version 4.3.30 must not be installed as it is not compatible with Docker Desktop.

</div>
<div id="mac-apple-silicon" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

### Mac with Apple silicon

- Beginning with Docker Desktop 4.3.0, we have removed the hard requirement to install **Rosetta 2**. There are a few optional command line tools that still require Rosetta 2 when using Darwin/AMD64. See the [Known issues section](apple-silicon.md#known-issues). However, to get the best experience, we recommend that you install Rosetta 2. To install Rosetta 2 manually from the command line, run the following command:

  ```console
  $ softwareupdate --install-rosetta
  ```

 For more information, see [Docker Desktop for Apple silicon](apple-silicon.md).

</div>
</div>

## Install and run Docker Desktop on Mac

### Install interactively

1. Double-click `Docker.dmg` to open the installer, then drag the Docker icon to
    the Applications folder.

      ![Install Docker app](images/docker-app-drag.png)

2. Double-click `Docker.app` in the Applications folder to start Docker. In the example below, the Applications folder is in "grid" view mode.

    ![Docker app in Hockeyapp](images/docker-app-in-apps.png)

3. The Docker menu (![whale menu](images/whale-x.png){: .inline}) displays the Docker Subscription Service Agreement window. It includes a change to the terms of use for Docker Desktop.

    {% include desktop-license-update.md %}

4. Click the checkbox to indicate that you accept the updated terms and then click **Accept** to continue. Docker Desktop starts after you accept the terms.

    > **Important**
    >
    > If you do not agree to the terms, the Docker Desktop application will close and  you can no longer run Docker Desktop on your machine. You can choose to accept the terms at a later date by opening Docker Desktop.
    {: .important}

    For more information, see [Docker Desktop License Agreement](../../subscription/index.md#docker-desktop-license-agreement). We recommend that you also read the [Blog](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_desktop_install_btl"} and [FAQs](https://www.docker.com/pricing/faq){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" id="dkr_docs_desktop_install_btl"} to learn how companies using Docker Desktop may be affected.

### Install from the command line

After downloading `Docker.dmg`, to install Docker Desktop to the Applications folder, run for instance the following commands in a terminal:
```
sudo hdiutil attach Docker.dmg
sudo /Volumes/Docker/Docker.app/Contents/MacOS/install
sudo hdiutil detach /Volumes/Docker
```

The `install` command accepts the following flag:
- `--accept-license`: accepts the [Docker Subscription Service Agreement](https://www.docker.com/legal/docker-subscription-service-agreement) now, rather than requiring it to be accepted when the application is first run
- `--allowed-org=<org name>`: requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub organization when running the application

### Quick start guide  
  
  If you've just installed the app, Docker Desktop launches the Quick Start Guide. The tutorial includes a simple exercise to build an example Docker image, run it as a container, push and save the image to Docker Hub.

   ![Docker Quick Start tutorial](images/docker-tutorial-mac.png)

Congratulations! You are now successfully running Docker Desktop. Click the Docker menu (![whale menu](images/whale-x.png){: .inline}) to see
**Preferences** and other options. To run the Quick Start Guide on demand, select the Docker menu and then choose **Quick Start Guide**.

## Updates

{% include desktop-update.md %}

## Uninstall Docker Desktop

To uninstall Docker Desktop from your Mac:

1. From the Docker menu, select **Troubleshoot** and then select **Uninstall**.
2. Click **Uninstall** to confirm your selection.

> **Note**
>
> Uninstalling Docker Desktop destroys Docker containers, images, volumes, and
> other Docker related data local to the machine, and removes the files generated
> by the application. Refer to the [back up and restore data](../backup-and-restore.md)
> section to learn how to preserve important data before uninstalling.

## Where to go next

- [Getting started](index.md) provides an overview of Docker Desktop on Mac, basic Docker command examples, how to get help or give feedback, and links to other topics about Docker Desktop on Mac.
- [Docker Desktop for Apple silicon](apple-silicon.md) for detailed information about Docker Desktop for Apple silicon.
- [Troubleshooting](troubleshoot.md) describes common problems, workarounds, how
  to run and submit diagnostics, and submit issues.
- [FAQs](../faqs.md) provide answers to frequently asked questions.
- [Release notes](release-notes/index.md) lists component updates, new features, and improvements associated with Docker Desktop releases.
- [Get started with Docker](../../get-started/index.md) provides a general Docker tutorial.
* [Back up and restore data](../backup-and-restore.md) provides instructions
  on backing up and restoring data related to Docker.
