---
description: Instructions on how to set up enhanced container isolation
title: How does it work?
keywords: set up, enhanced container isolation, rootless, security
---

>**Note**
>
>Enhance Container Isolation is available to Docker Business customers only.

Enhanced Container Isolation hardens container isolation using the [Sysbox
container runtime](https://github.com/nestybox/sysbox). Sysbox is a fork of the
standard OCI runc runtime that was modified to enhance container isolation and
workloads. For more details see [Under the hood](#under-the-hood).

Starting with version 4.13, Docker Desktop includes a customized version of
Sysbox.

When [Enhanced Container Isolation is enabled](index.md#how-do-i-enable-enhanced-container-isolation), containers
created by users through `docker run` or `docker create` are automatically
launched using Sysbox instead of the standard OCI runc runtime. Users need not
do anything else and can continue to use containers as usual. For exceptions,
see [FAQs and known issues](faq.md).

Even containers that use the insecure `--privileged` flag can now be run
securely with Enhanced Container Isolation, such that they can no longer be used
to breach the Docker Desktop Virtual Machine (VM) or other containers.

>Note
>
> When Enhanced Container Isolation is enabled in Docker Desktop, the Docker CLI
> "--runtime" flag is ignored. Docker's default runtime continues to be "runc",
> but all user containers are implicitly launched with Sysbox.

Enhanced Container Isolation is not the same as Docker Engine's userns-remap
mode or Rootless Docker. This is explained further below. 

### Under the hood

Sysbox enhances container isolation by using techniques such as:

* Enabling the Linux user-namespace on all containers (root user in the container maps to an unprivileged user in the Linux VM).
* Restricting the container from mounting sensitive VM directories.
* Vetting sensitive system-calls between the container and the Linux kernel.
* Mapping filesystem user/group IDs between the container's user-namespace and the Linux VM.
* Emulating portions of the procfs and sysfs filesystems inside the container.

Some of these are made possible by recent advances in the Linux kernel which
Docker Desktop now incorporates. Sysbox applies these techniques with minimal
functional or performance impact to containers.

These techniques complement Docker's traditional container security mechanisms
such as using other Linux namespaces, cgroups, restricted Linux capabilities,
seccomp, and AppArmor. They add a strong layer of isolation between the
container and the Linux kernel inside the Docker Desktop VM.

For more information, see [Key features and benefits](features-benefits.md).

### Enhanced Container Isolation vs Docker Userns-Remap Mode

The Docker Engine includes a feature called [userns-remap mode](/engine/security/userns-remap/)
that enables the user-namespace in all containers. However it suffers from a few
[limitations](/engine/security/userns-remap/) and it's
not supported within Docker Desktop.

Userns-remap mode is similar to Enhanced Container Isolation in that both improve
container isolation by leveraging the Linux user-namespace.

However, Enhanced Container Isolation is much more advanced since it assigns
exclusive user-namespace mappings per container automatically and add several
other [container isolation features](#under-the-hood) meant to secure Docker
Desktop in organizations with stringent security requirements.

### Enhanced Container Isolation vs Rootless Docker

[Rootless Docker](/engine/security/rootless/) allows the Docker Engine, and by
extension the containers, to run without root privileges natively a Linux host. This
allows non-root users install and run Docker natively on Linux.

Rootless Docker is not supported within Docker Desktop. While it's a valuable
feature when running Docker natively on Linux, its value within Docker Desktop
is reduced since Docker Desktop runs the Docker Engine within a Linux VM. That
is, Docker Desktop already allows non-root host users to run Docker and
isolates the Docker Engine from the host using a virtual machine.

Unlike Rootless Docker, Enhanced Container Isolation does not run Docker Engine
within a Linux user-namespace. Rather it runs the containers generated by that
engine within a user-namespace. This has the advantage of bypassing [the
limitations](/engine/security/rootless/#known-limitations) of Rootless Docker
and creates a stronger boundary between the containers and the Docker Engine.

Enhanced Container Isolation is meant to ensure containers launched with Docker
Desktop can't easily breach the Docker Desktop Linux VM and therefore modify
security settings within it.
