docker-hub/builds/automated-testing.md, before:

---
description: Automated tests
keywords: Automated, testing, repository
redirect_from:
- /docker-cloud/feature-reference/automated-testing/
- /docker-cloud/builds/automated-testing/
title: Automated repository tests
---

Docker Hub can automatically test changes to your source code repositories
using containers. You can enable `Autotest` on [any Docker Hub repository](/docker-hub/repos) to run tests on each pull request to the source code
repository to create a continuous integration testing service.

Enabling `Autotest` builds an image for testing purposes, but does **not**
automatically push the built image to the Docker repository. If you want to push
built images to your Docker Hub repository, enable [Automated Builds](index.md).

## Set up automated test files

To set up your automated tests, create a `docker-compose.test.yml` file which
defines a `sut` service that lists the tests to be run.
The `docker-compose.test.yml` file should be located in the same directory that
contains the Dockerfile used to build the image.

For example:

```none
sut:
  build: .
  command: run_tests.sh
```

The example above builds the repository, and runs the `run_tests.sh` file inside
a container using the built image.

You can define any number of linked services in this file. The only requirement
is that `sut` is defined. Its return code determines if tests passed or not.
Tests **pass** if the `sut` service returns `0`, and **fail** otherwise.

> **Note**: Only the `sut` service and all other services listed in `depends_on`
are started. For instance, if you have services that poll for changes in other
services, be sure to include the polling services in the `depends_on` list to
make sure all of your services start.

You can define more than one `docker-compose.test.yml` file if needed. Any file
that ends in `.test.yml` is used for testing, and the tests run sequentially.
You can also use [custom build hooks](advanced.md#override-build-test-or-push-commands)
to further customize your test behavior.

> **Note**: If you enable Automated builds, they also run any tests defined
in the `test.yml` files.

## Enable automated tests on a repository

To enable testing on a source code repository, you must first create an
associated build-repository in Docker Hub.  Your `Autotest` settings are
configured on the same page as [automated builds](index.md), however
you do not need to enable Autobuilds to use `Autotest`. Autobuild is enabled per
branch or tag, and you do not need to enable it at all.

Only branches that are configured to use **Autobuild** push images to the
Docker repository, regardless of the Autotest settings.

1. Log in to Docker Hub and select **Repositories** in the top navigation.

3. Select the repository you want to enable `Autotest` on.

4. From the repository view, click the **Builds** tab.

4. Click **Configure automated builds**.

5. Configure the automated build settings as explained in [Automated Builds](index.md).

    At minimum you must configure:

    * The source code repository
    * the build location
    * at least one build rule

8. Choose your **Autotest** option.

    The following options are available:

    * `Off`: No additional test builds. Tests only run if they're configured
    as part of an automated build.

    * `Internal pull requests`: Run a test build for any pull requests
    to branches that match a build rule, but only when the pull request comes
    from the same source repository.

    * `Internal and external pull requests`: Run a test build for any
    pull requests to branches that match a build rule, including when the
    pull request originated in an external source repository.

    > **Note**: For security purposes, autotest on _external pull requests_ is
    limited on public repositories. Private images are not pulled and
    environment variables defined in Docker Hub are not
    available. Automated builds continue to work as usual.

9. Click **Save** to save the settings, or click **Save and build** to save and
run an initial test.

## Check your test results

From the repository's details page, click **Timeline**.

From this tab you can see any pending, in-progress, successful, and failed
builds and test runs for the repository.

You can click any timeline entry to view the logs for each test run.

Commit message:

Specify compose file version required to use for `depends_on`

docker-hub/builds/automated-testing.md, after:

---
description: Automated tests
keywords: Automated, testing, repository
redirect_from:
- /docker-cloud/feature-reference/automated-testing/
- /docker-cloud/builds/automated-testing/
title: Automated repository tests
---

Docker Hub can automatically test changes to your source code repositories
using containers. You can enable `Autotest` on [any Docker Hub repository](/docker-hub/repos) to run tests on each pull request to the source code
repository to create a continuous integration testing service.

Enabling `Autotest` builds an image for testing purposes, but does **not**
automatically push the built image to the Docker repository. If you want to push
built images to your Docker Hub repository, enable [Automated Builds](index.md).

## Set up automated test files

To set up your automated tests, create a `docker-compose.test.yml` file which
defines a `sut` service that lists the tests to be run.
The `docker-compose.test.yml` file should be located in the same directory that
contains the Dockerfile used to build the image.

For example:

```none
services:
  sut:
    build: .
    command: run_tests.sh
```

The example above builds the repository, and runs the `run_tests.sh` file inside
a container using the built image.

You can define any number of linked services in this file. The only requirement
is that `sut` is defined. Its return code determines if tests passed or not.
Tests **pass** if the `sut` service returns `0`, and **fail** otherwise.

> **Note**: Only the `sut` service and all other services listed in [`depends_on`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v2/#depends_on) are started. For instance, if you have services that poll for changes in other services, be sure to include the polling services in the [`depends_on`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v2/#depends_on) list to make sure all of your services start.
Also make sure to include a compose file version from 2.0 upward as `depends_on` was added in [version 2.0](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-versioning/#version-2) file format.

You can define more than one `docker-compose.test.yml` file if needed. Any file
that ends in `.test.yml` is used for testing, and the tests run sequentially.
You can also use [custom build hooks](advanced.md#override-build-test-or-push-commands)
to further customize your test behavior.

> **Note**: If you enable Automated builds, they also run any tests defined
in the `test.yml` files.

## Enable automated tests on a repository

To enable testing on a source code repository, you must first create an
associated build-repository in Docker Hub.  Your `Autotest` settings are
configured on the same page as [automated builds](index.md), however
you do not need to enable Autobuilds to use `Autotest`. Autobuild is enabled per
branch or tag, and you do not need to enable it at all.

Only branches that are configured to use **Autobuild** push images to the
Docker repository, regardless of the Autotest settings.

1. Log in to Docker Hub and select **Repositories** in the top navigation.

3. Select the repository you want to enable `Autotest` on.

4. From the repository view, click the **Builds** tab.

4. Click **Configure automated builds**.

5. Configure the automated build settings as explained in [Automated Builds](index.md).

    At minimum you must configure:

    * The source code repository
    * the build location
    * at least one build rule

8. Choose your **Autotest** option.

    The following options are available:

    * `Off`: No additional test builds. Tests only run if they're configured
    as part of an automated build.

    * `Internal pull requests`: Run a test build for any pull requests
    to branches that match a build rule, but only when the pull request comes
    from the same source repository.

    * `Internal and external pull requests`: Run a test build for any
    pull requests to branches that match a build rule, including when the
    pull request originated in an external source repository.

    > **Note**: For security purposes, autotest on _external pull requests_ is
    limited on public repositories. Private images are not pulled and
    environment variables defined in Docker Hub are not
    available. Automated builds continue to work as usual.

9. Click **Save** to save the settings, or click **Save and build** to save and
run an initial test.

## Check your test results

From the repository's details page, click **Timeline**.

From this tab you can see any pending, in-progress, successful, and failed
builds and test runs for the repository.

You can click any timeline entry to view the logs for each test run.
