compose/install/uninstall.md, before:

---
description: How to uninstall Docker Compose
keywords: compose, orchestration, uninstall, uninstallation, docker, documentation

title: Uninstall Docker Compose
---

Uninstalling Docker Compose depends on the method you have used to install Docker Compose. 
On this page you can find specific instructions to uninstall Docker Compose.


### Uninstalling Docker Desktop

If you want to uninstall Compose and you have installed Docker Desktop, follow the corresponding link bellow to get instructions on how to remove Docker Desktop.
> Note that, unless you have other Docker instances installed on that specific environment, you would be removing Docker altogether by uninstalling the Desktop.

See Uninstall Docker Desktop for:
* [Mac](../../desktop/install/mac-install.md/#uninstall-docker-desktop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
* [Windows](../../desktop/install/windows-install.md/#uninstall-docker-desktop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
* [Linux](../../desktop/install/linux-install.md/#uninstall-docker-desktop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}


### Uninstalling the Docker Compose CLI plugin

To remove the Compose CLI plugin, run:

```console
$ sudo apt-get remove docker-compose-plugin
```
Or, if using a different distro, use the equivalent package manager instruction to remove `docker-compose-plugin`. 

__Manually installed__

If you used `curl` to install Compose CLI plugin, to uninstall it run:

```console
$ rm $DOCKER_CONFIG/cli-plugins/docker-compose
```
    
or, if you have installed Compose for all users, run:  

```console
$ rm /usr/local/lib/docker/cli-plugins/docker-compose
```

You can also use:

{% raw %}	
```console
$ docker info --format '{{range .ClientInfo.Plugins}}{{if eq .Name "compose"}}{{.Path}}{{end}}{{end}}'
```
{% endraw %}

to inspect the location of the Compose CLI plugin.


> Got a **Permission denied** error?
>
> If you get a **Permission denied** error using either of the above
> methods, you do not have the permissions allowing you to remove
> `docker-compose`. To force the removal, prepend `sudo` to either of the above instructions and run it again.

Commit message:

Publish updates from master (#15566)
* Update mac-install.md (#15555)

Typo in spelling of subscription. `subscri[tion` -> `subscription`

* Addition of a 'Contribute' section with our Style Guide (#15350)

* SG test.

* moved some content around

* editing

* broken links fix

* formatting changes

* fixes

* fixes

* edits after review

* fix broken links

* broken link fix

* a few more edits

* removed contributing page

* Revert "removed contributing page"

This reverts commit 5822cd516bf059640e07d34450a44c26dbbbc77d.

* add redirect

* Install page improvement based on feedback (scenario2) (#15494)

* Install page improvement based on users and PM feedback
* Exploring a second scenario deriving from additional feedback
* Review feedback

* contribute edit (#15565)

Co-authored-by: Clint Joseph <clintjoseph1992@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Dockertopia <103652162+dockertopia@users.noreply.github.com>

compose/install/uninstall.md, after:

---
description: How to uninstall Docker Compose
keywords: compose, orchestration, uninstall, uninstallation, docker, documentation

title: Uninstall Docker Compose
---

Uninstalling Docker Compose depends on the method you have used to install Docker Compose. On this page you can find specific instructions to uninstall Docker Compose.


### Uninstalling Docker Desktop

If you want to uninstall Compose and you have installed Docker Desktop, follow the corresponding link bellow to get instructions on how to remove Docker Desktop.

> **Note**
>
> Unless you have other Docker instances installed on that specific environment, you would be removing Docker altogether by uninstalling the Desktop.

See Uninstall Docker Desktop for:
[Mac](../../desktop/install/mac-install.md/#uninstall-docker-desktop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} |
[Windows](../../desktop/install/windows-install.md/#uninstall-docker-desktop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} |
[Linux](../../desktop/install/linux-install.md/#uninstall-docker-desktop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

### Uninstalling the Docker Compose CLI plugin

To remove the Compose CLI plugin, run:

Ubuntu, Debian:

```console
$ sudo apt-get remove docker-compose-plugin
```
RPM-based distros:

```console
$ sudo yum remove docker-compose-plugin
```

#### Manually installed

If you used `curl` to install Compose CLI plugin, to uninstall it, run:

```console
$ rm $DOCKER_CONFIG/cli-plugins/docker-compose
```

#### Remove for all users

Or, if you have installed Compose for all users, run:

```console
$ rm /usr/local/lib/docker/cli-plugins/docker-compose
```

> Got a **Permission denied** error?
>
> If you get a **Permission denied** error using either of the above
> methods, you do not have the permissions allowing you to remove
> `docker-compose`. To force the removal, prepend `sudo` to either of the above instructions and run it again.

#### Inspect the location of the Compose CLI plugin

To check where Compose is installed, use:

```console
$ docker info --format '{{range .ClientInfo.Plugins}}{{if eq .Name "compose"}}{{.Path}}{{end}}{{end}}'
```
