docs/installation/joyent.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "Install on Joyent Public Cloud"
description = "Installation instructions for Docker on the Joyent Compute Service."
keywords = ["Docker, Docker documentation, installation, joyent, Joyent Public Cloud, Joyent Compute Service,  Joyent Container Service"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cloud"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

## Install on Joyent Public Cloud

1. Sign in to the [Joyent customer portal](https://my.joyent.com/)

2. [Create a Docker host](https://docs.joyent.com/jpc/managing-docker-containers/creating-a-docker-host).

## Start and manage containers

1. [Start containers in the web UI](https://docs.joyent.com/jpc/managing-docker-containers/starting-a-container)

2. [Configure the Docker CLI on your laptop](https://docs.joyent.com/jpc/managing-docker-containers/access-your-jpc-docker-hosts-from-the-docker-cli) to connect to the remote host to launch and manage containers.

3. SSH into the Docker host.

4. Launch containers using the Docker CLI.

## Where to go next

Continue with the [Docker user guide](/userguide/), read Joyent's [getting started blog post](https://www.joyent.com/blog/first-steps-with-joyents-container-service), and [full documentation](https://docs.joyent.com/jpc/managing-docker-containers).

Commit message:

Closes PR #14503 with this carry - Refer to Joyent's blogs and docs rather than following from our end - All of this information exists on Joyent's site Updating with thaJeztah's comments
Signed-off-by: Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>

docs/installation/joyent.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "Joyent Triton Elastic Container Service"
description = "Installation instructions for Docker on the Joyent's Triton Elastic Container Service."
keywords = ["Docker, Docker documentation, installation, joyent, Triton, Joyent Public Cloud, Joyent Compute Service, Joyent Container Service"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cloud"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

## Using Joyent's Triton Elastic Container Service for Docker

Joyent's Triton Elastic Container Service for Docker uses the native Docker API
and allows you to securely provision containers on bare metal.  For detailed
instructions on using Joyent with Docker, see [Deploying Couchbase clusters the
easy way with Triton and
Docker](https://www.joyent.com/blog/couchbase-in-docker-containers) from Joyent.

Joyent provides a `sdc-docker-setup.sh` script that makes it easy to use Docker
with Joyent. The [Docker API guide for
Triton](https://apidocs.joyent.com/docker) has details on using this script.

Once you are up and running with Joyent, continue with the [Docker user guide](/userguide/).
