api/dtr_1_3_accounts.md, before:

+++
title = "DTR Accounts API"
description = "Docker Trusted Registry 1.3 User and Organization Accounts"
keywords = ["API, Docker, index, REST, documentation, Docker Trusted Registry, registry"]
weight = 61
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_dtrapi"
+++

# Docker Trusted Registry 1.3 User and Organization Accounts

## List Accounts

`GET /api/v0/accounts`

```bash
$ curl --user alice:password https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts
```

Example Response:

```json
{
  "accounts": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "type": "user",
      "name": "admin",
      "isActive": true
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "type": "user",
      "name": "jlhawn",
      "isActive": true
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "type": "user",
      "name": "alice",
      "isActive": true
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "type": "organization",
      "name": "engineering",
    }
  ]
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as any user in the system.

**Status Codes**

- *401* the client is not authenticated.
- *200* success.

## Account Details

`GET /api/v0/accounts/{name}`

```bash
$ curl --user alice:password https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice
```

Example Request:

```http
GET /api/v0/accounts/alice HTTP/1.1
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": true
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as any user in the system.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account exists.
- *401* the client is not authenticated.
- *200* success.

## List Organizations for a User

`GET /api/v0/accounts/{name}/organizations`


```bash
$ curl --user alice:password https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/organizations
```

Example Request:

```http
GET /api/v0/accounts/alice/organizations HTTP/1.1
```

Example Response:

```json
{
  "organizations": [
    {
      "id": 4,
      "type": "organization",
      "name": "engineering",
    }
  ]
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user or as the user in question.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin or target user.
- *200* success.

## Create an Account

`POST /api/v0/accounts`

```bash
$ curl --user alice:password -X POST --data '{"type": "user","name": "alice","password": "watchThinkFruitNeighbor"}' --header "Content-Type: application/json" https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts
```

User and Organization names must conform to the namespace rules - lowercase
letters, numbers, or after the first character, `-` and `_`.


### Create a Managed User Account

There is no user restriction on creating a managed user account, however managed
user accounts start out inactive and the user cannot authenticate until an admin
explicitly activates the account using the activate user API endpoint.

This allows the creation of DTR managed namespace reservations by an external
service, which can then activate the account when it's been verified by the external service.

DTR auth settings must be in "Managed" mode.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "password": "watchThinkFruitNeighbor"
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": false
}
```

**Authorization**

Anyone - no authorization required.

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input, or `account already exists`
- *200* success.

### Create a User Account from LDAP

DTR auth settings must be in "ldap" mode.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "type": "user",
  "name": "robert.smith",
  "ldapLogin": "robert.smith",
  "password": "shakeMeanPlainBaseball"
}
```

The `name` field is the requested username to use in DTR, while `ldapLogin`
should be the user's LDAP user login attribute. These need only differ if the
user prefers or if the user's LDAP login name is not compatible with valid DTR
usernames.

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 4,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "robert.smith",
  "ldapLogin": "robert.smith"
}
```

**Authorization**

Anyone may create an LDAP user account, however, the account is only created if
the client provides a valid LDAP login and password.

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input.
- *200* success.

### Create an Organization Account

DTR auth settings must be in "Managed" or "ldap" mode.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "type": "organization",
  "name": "engineering"
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "organization",
  "name": "engineering",
  "ldapLogin": "engineering"
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a global 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *200* success.

## Remove an User or Organization Account

`DELETE /api/v0/accounts/{name}`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X DELETE https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/engineering
```

Example Request:

```http
DELETE /api/v0/accounts/alice HTTP/1.1
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *204* (`No Content`) success - or account does not exist.

## Change a Managed User's Password

`POST /api/v0/accounts/{name}/changePassword`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X POST --data '{"newPassword":"qwerty!@"}' --insecure --header "Content-type: application/json" https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/changePassword
```

Passwords set using this API need to be eight characters or longer.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts/alice/changePassword HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "oldPassword": "watchThinkFruitNeighbor",
  "newPassword": "pinkCloudBehaviorDozen"
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": true
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as the user in question or as an admin user (in
which case the `oldPassword` field may be omitted from the request body).

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input. (can be `password too short`)
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *404* no such account. 
- *200* success.

## Activate a Managed User

`PUT /api/v0/accounts/{name}/activate`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X PUT --insecure https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/activate
```

Example Request:

```http
PUT /api/v0/accounts/alice/activate HTTP/1.1
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": true
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *200* success.

## Deactivate a Managed User

`PUT /api/v0/accounts/{name}/deactivate`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X PUT --insecure https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/deactivate
```

Example Request:

```http
PUT /api/v0/accounts/alice/deactivate HTTP/1.1
```

Examlpe Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": false
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *200* success.


<!--- TODO - how do I list / change the global roles assignments? --->

Commit message:

Initial DTR->Docker Trusted Registry
Signed-off-by: Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>

api/dtr_1_3_accounts.md, after:

+++
title = "Docker Trusted Registry Accounts API"
description = "Docker Trusted Registry 1.3 User and Organization Accounts"
keywords = ["API, Docker, index, REST, documentation, Docker Trusted Registry, registry"]
weight = 61
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_dtrapi"
+++

# Docker Trusted Registry 1.3 User and Organization Accounts

## List Accounts

`GET /api/v0/accounts`

```bash
$ curl --user alice:password https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts
```

Example Response:

```json
{
  "accounts": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "type": "user",
      "name": "admin",
      "isActive": true
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "type": "user",
      "name": "jlhawn",
      "isActive": true
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "type": "user",
      "name": "alice",
      "isActive": true
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "type": "organization",
      "name": "engineering",
    }
  ]
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as any user in the system.

**Status Codes**

- *401* the client is not authenticated.
- *200* success.

## Account Details

`GET /api/v0/accounts/{name}`

```bash
$ curl --user alice:password https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice
```

Example Request:

```http
GET /api/v0/accounts/alice HTTP/1.1
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": true
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as any user in the system.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account exists.
- *401* the client is not authenticated.
- *200* success.

## List Organizations for a User

`GET /api/v0/accounts/{name}/organizations`


```bash
$ curl --user alice:password https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/organizations
```

Example Request:

```http
GET /api/v0/accounts/alice/organizations HTTP/1.1
```

Example Response:

```json
{
  "organizations": [
    {
      "id": 4,
      "type": "organization",
      "name": "engineering",
    }
  ]
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user or as the user in question.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin or target user.
- *200* success.

## Create an Account

`POST /api/v0/accounts`

```bash
$ curl --user alice:password -X POST --data '{"type": "user","name": "alice","password": "watchThinkFruitNeighbor"}' --header "Content-Type: application/json" https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts
```

User and Organization names must conform to the namespace rules - lowercase
letters, numbers, or after the first character, `-` and `_`.


### Create a Managed User Account

There is no user restriction on creating a managed user account, however managed
user accounts start out inactive and the user cannot authenticate until an admin
explicitly activates the account using the activate user API endpoint.

This allows the creation of Docker Trusted Registry managed namespace reservations by an external
service, which can then activate the account when it's been verified by the external service.

Docker Trusted Registry auth settings must be in "Managed" mode.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "password": "watchThinkFruitNeighbor"
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": false
}
```

**Authorization**

Anyone - no authorization required.

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input, or `account already exists`
- *200* success.

### Create a User Account from LDAP

Docker Trusted Registry auth settings must be in "ldap" mode.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "type": "user",
  "name": "robert.smith",
  "ldapLogin": "robert.smith",
  "password": "shakeMeanPlainBaseball"
}
```

The `name` field is the requested username to use in Docker Trusted Registry, while `ldapLogin`
should be the user's LDAP user login attribute. These need only differ if the
user prefers or if the user's LDAP login name is not compatible with valid Docker Trusted Registry
usernames.

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 4,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "robert.smith",
  "ldapLogin": "robert.smith"
}
```

**Authorization**

Anyone may create an LDAP user account, however, the account is only created if
the client provides a valid LDAP login and password.

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input.
- *200* success.

### Create an Organization Account

Docker Trusted Registry auth settings must be in "Managed" or "ldap" mode.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "type": "organization",
  "name": "engineering"
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "organization",
  "name": "engineering",
  "ldapLogin": "engineering"
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a global 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *200* success.

## Remove an User or Organization Account

`DELETE /api/v0/accounts/{name}`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X DELETE https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/engineering
```

Example Request:

```http
DELETE /api/v0/accounts/alice HTTP/1.1
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *204* (`No Content`) success - or account does not exist.

## Change a Managed User's Password

`POST /api/v0/accounts/{name}/changePassword`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X POST --data '{"newPassword":"qwerty!@"}' --insecure --header "Content-type: application/json" https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/changePassword
```

Passwords set using this API need to be eight characters or longer.

Example Request:

```http
POST /api/v0/accounts/alice/changePassword HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "oldPassword": "watchThinkFruitNeighbor",
  "newPassword": "pinkCloudBehaviorDozen"
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": true
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as the user in question or as an admin user (in
which case the `oldPassword` field may be omitted from the request body).

**Status Codes**

- *400* invalid input. (can be `password too short`)
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *404* no such account.
- *200* success.

## Activate a Managed User

`PUT /api/v0/accounts/{name}/activate`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X PUT --insecure https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/activate
```

Example Request:

```http
PUT /api/v0/accounts/alice/activate HTTP/1.1
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": true
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *200* success.

## Deactivate a Managed User

`PUT /api/v0/accounts/{name}/deactivate`

```bash
curl -v --user admin:password -X PUT --insecure https://dtr.domain.com/api/v0/accounts/alice/deactivate
```

Example Request:

```http
PUT /api/v0/accounts/alice/deactivate HTTP/1.1
```

Examlpe Response:

```json
{
  "id": 5,
  "type": "user",
  "name": "alice",
  "isActive": false
}
```

**Authorization**

Client must be authenticated as a system 'admin' user.

**Status Codes**

- *404* no such account.
- *401* client must be authenticated.
- *403* client must be an admin.
- *200* success.


<!--- TODO - how do I list / change the global roles assignments? --->
