desktop/dev-environments.md, before:

---
description: Dev Environments
keywords: Dev Environments, share, collaborate, local
title: Development Environments Preview
toc_min: 1
toc_max: 2
---

Dev Environments enable you to collaborate easily by allowing you to share work-in-progress code with your team members. When using Dev Environments, you can easily set up repeatable development environments, keeping the environment details versioned along with your code. You can also share your work-in-progress code with your team members in just one click and without having to deal with any merge conflicts while moving between Git branches to get your code on to their machine.

Dev Environments also allow you to switch between your developer environments or your team members' environments, move between branches to look at changes that are in progress, without moving off your current Git branch.

> **Preview**
>
> The Dev Environments feature is currently offered as a Preview. We recommend that you do not use this in production environments.

To access Dev Environments, from the Docker menu, select **Dashboard** > **Dev Environments**.

![Dev environment intro](/images/dev-env-create.png){:width="700px"}

## Prerequisites

Dev Environments are available as part of Docker Desktop 3.5.0 release. Download and install **Docker Desktop 3.5.0** or higher:

- [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/release-notes/)
- [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/release-notes/)

To get started with Dev Environments, you must have the following tools and extension installed on your machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
- [Visual Studio Code Remote Containers Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}

Click **Install** to download and install any missing tools.

### Add Git to your PATH on Windows

If you have already installed Git, and it's not detected properly, run the following command to check whether you can use Git with the CLI or PowerShell:

`$ git --version`

If it doesn't detect Git as a valid command, you must reinstall Git and ensure you choose the option  **Git from the command line...** or the **Use Git and optional Unix tools...**  on the **Adjusting your PATH environment**  step.

![Windows add Git to path](/images/dev-env-gitbash.png){:width="300px"}

## Start a single container Dev Environment

The simplest way to get started with Dev Environments is to create a new environment by cloning the Git repository of the project you are working on. For example, let us create a new Dev Environment using a simple `single-dev-env` project from the [Docker Samples](https://github.com/dockersamples/single-dev-env){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

> **Note**
>
> When cloning a Git repository using SSH, ensure you've added your SSH key to the ssh-agent. To do this, open a terminal and run `ssh-add <path to your private ssh key>`.

1. First, let's copy `git@github.com:dockersamples/single-dev-env.git` and add it to the **Create** field on the **Create a Development Environment** page.
2. Now, click **Create**.

    This clones the Git code inside a volume, determines the best image for your Dev Environment, and finally, opens VS Code inside the Dev Environment container.

![Single container Dev environment](/images/dev-env-container.png){:width="700px"}

In the above example, the names `amazing_mclaren` and `stoic_carver` are randomly generated. You'll most likely see different names when you create your Dev Environment.

Hover over the container and click **Open in VS Code** to start working in VS Code as usual. You can also open a terminal in VS Code, and use Git to push or pull code to your repository, or switch between branches and work as you would normally.

You can launch the application by running the command `make run` in your VS Code terminal. This opens an http server on port 8080. Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser to see the running application.

![Single container Dev environment](/images/dev-env-localhost.png){:width="700px"}

### Create a Dev Environment from a specific branch or tag

You can create a dev environment from a specific branch (for example, a branch corresponding to a Pull Request) or a tag by adding `@mybranch` or `@tag` as a suffix to your Git URL:

 `https://github.com/dockersamples/single-dev-env@mybranch`

 or

 `git@github.com:dockersamples/single-dev-env.git@mybranch`

Docker then clones the repository with your specified branch or tag.

> **Note**
>
> Known issue: when cloning a Git branch using `https://`, you must remove the `.git` suffix at the end of the URL.

### Recap

Let's summarize the tasks we performed so far to start a single container Dev Environment.

1. First, we cloned a Git repository in a container using Git credentials. Note that this did not conflict with any of the local files on your host.
2. The Go tools required for our sample project was set up automatically for us. Also, this did not cause any friction with our local tooling setup.
3. Finally, we were able to run the application server inside a container using the VS Code terminal and access it automatically from the host.

## Share your Dev Environment

If you are a member of the Docker [Team plan](https://www.docker.com/pricing?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs_driven_upgrade){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}, you can now share you Dev Environment with your team. When you are ready to share your environment, just click the **Share** button and specify the Docker Hub namespace where you'd like to push your Dev Environment to.

![Share a Dev environment](/images/dev-env-share.png){:width="700px"}

This creates a Docker image of your dev environment, uploads it to the Docker Hub namespace you have specified in the previous step, and provides a tiny URL which you can use to share your work with your team members.

![Dev environment shared](/images/dev-env-shared.png){:width="700px"}

Your team members just need to add this URL in the **Create** field and then click **Create**. Your Dev Environment now starts in the exact same state as you shared it!

Using this shared Dev Environment, your team members can access the code, any dependencies, and the current Git branch you are working on. They can also review your changes and provide feedback even before you create a pull request!

## Start a sample Compose Dev Environment

You can also use Dev Environments to collaborate on any Docker Compose-based projects. For example, let's use the `compose-dev-env` project from the [Docker Samples](https://github.com/dockersamples/compose-dev-env){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

  > **Note**
  >
  > When cloning a Git repository using SSH, ensure you've added your SSH key to the ssh-agent. To do this, open a terminal and run `ssh-add <path to your private ssh key>`.

1. Copy `git@github.com:dockersamples/compose-dev-env.git` and add it to the **Create** field on the **Create a Development Environment** page.
2. Click **Create**. This initializes the project and clones the Git code and builds the Compose application. This:

    - Builds local images for services that are defined in the Compose file
    - Pulls images required for other services
    - Creates volumes and networks
    - Starts the Compose stack

![Compose Dev environment](/images/dev-env-compose.png){:width="700px"}

Now your application is up and running, you can check by opening [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser.

The time taken to start the Compose application depends on how your application is configured, whether the images have been built, and the number of services you have defined, etc.

You'll also notice that VS Code doesn't open directly (unlike the single container Dev Environment) as there are multiple services configured. You can hover over a service and then click on the **Open in VS Code** button to open a specific service in Visual Studio Code. This stops the existing container and creates a new container which allows you to develop and update your service in VS Code.

You can now update your service and test it against your Compose application.

## Set up your own Compose Dev Environment

In the previous section, we've learnt how to start a sample Compose Dev Environment. To set up a Dev Environment for your own Compose-based project, you'll need some extra configuration that tells Docker Desktop how to build, start, and use the right Dev Environment image for your services.

Dev Environments use an additional `docker-compose.yaml` file located in the `.docker` directory at the root of your project. This file allows you to define the image required for a dedicated service, the ports you'd like to expose, along with additional configuration options dedicated to Dev Environments coming in the future.

Let's take a detailed look at the `docker-compose.yaml` file we used in the [compose-dev-env](https://github.com/dockersamples/compose-dev-env/blob/main/.docker/docker-compose.yaml){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} sample project.

```yaml
version: "3.7"
services:
  backend:
    build:
      context: backend
      target: development
    secrets:
      - db-password
    depends_on:
      - db
  db:
    image: mariadb
    restart: always
    healthcheck:
      test: [ "CMD", "mysqladmin", "ping", "-h", "127.0.0.1", "--silent" ]
      interval: 3s
      retries: 5
      start_period: 30s
    secrets:
      - db-password
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/mysql
    environment:
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=example
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD_FILE=/run/secrets/db-password
    expose:
      - 3306
  proxy:
    build: proxy
    ports:
      - 8080:80
    depends_on:
      - backend
volumes:
  db-data:
secrets:
  db-password:
    file: db/password.txt
```

In the above yaml file, the build context `backend` specifies that that the container should be built using the `development` stage (`target` attribute) of the Dockerfile located in the `backend` directory (`context` attribute)

The `development` stage of the Dockerfile is defined as follows:

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.16-alpine AS build
WORKDIR /go/src/github.com/org/repo
COPY . .

RUN go build -o server .

FROM build AS development
RUN apk update \
    && apk add git
CMD ["go", "run", "main.go"]

FROM alpine:3.12
EXPOSE 8000
COPY --from=build /go/src/github.com/org/repo/server /server
CMD ["/server"]
```

The `development`target uses a `golang:1.16-alpine` image with all dependencies you need for development. You can start your project directly from VS Code and interact with the others applications or services such as the database or the frontend.

In our example, the Docker Compose files are the same. However, they could be different and the services defined in the main Compose file may use other targets to build or directly reference other images.

## Specify a base image

In this preview, Dev Environments support a simple YAML file which allows you to specify the base image that you would like to use as part of your Dev Environment. You must include this as part of the `.docker` folder and then add it as a `config.json` file. For example, to use the Jekyll base image, add:

```jsx
{
  "image": "jekyll/jekyll"
}
```

> **Note**
>
> This configuration is to unblock users for the Preview release only. We may move this configuration for single and multi-container applications to a Compose-based implementation in future releases.
>
> To get involved with the discussion on how we are going to implement this as part of Compose, join the **#docker-dev-environments** channel in the [Docker Community Slack](https://dockercommunity.slack.com/messages){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}, or let us know your feedback by creating an issue in the [Dev Environments](https://github.com/docker/dev-environments/issues){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

## Known issues

The following section lists known issues and workarounds in the Dev Environments Preview:

1. It is currently not possible to share Compose-based applications using Dev Environments because registries do not support Compose applications. Refer to the [Feedback](#feedback) section to let us know your requirements for sharing Compose-based applications.
2. When sharing a Dev Environment between Mac and Windows, the VS Code terminal may not function correctly in some cases. To work around this issue, use the Exec in CLI option in the Docker Dashboard.
3. You must wait until Dev Environment is successfully created (indicated by a green icon) before closing the Docker Dashboard. Dev Environments may not be created successfully if you attempt to close the Docker Dashboard while the Dev Environment creation process is in progress.
4. When sharing a Dev Environment between ARM64 and AMD64 machines, the environment will be emulated.

## Feedback

We are excited that you are trying out our Dev Environments Preview. We would love to hear from you.

You can let us know your feedback by creating an issue in the [Dev Environments](https://github.com/docker/dev-environments/issues){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository. Alternatively, get in touch with us on the **#docker-dev-environments** channel in the [Docker Community Slack](https://dockercommunity.slack.com/messages){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.

Commit message:

Update screenshots, create through dialog box
Signed-off-by: Guillaume Tardif <guillaume.tardif@gmail.com>

desktop/dev-environments.md, after:

---
description: Dev Environments
keywords: Dev Environments, share, collaborate, local
title: Development Environments Preview
toc_min: 1
toc_max: 2
---

Dev Environments enable you to collaborate easily by allowing you to share work-in-progress code with your team members. When using Dev Environments, you can easily set up repeatable development environments, keeping the environment details versioned along with your code. You can also share your work-in-progress code with your team members in just one click and without having to deal with any merge conflicts while moving between Git branches to get your code on to their machine.

Dev Environments also allow you to switch between your developer environments or your team members' environments, move between branches to look at changes that are in progress, without moving off your current Git branch.

> **Preview**
>
> The Dev Environments feature is currently offered as a Preview. We recommend that you do not use this in production environments.

To access Dev Environments, from the Docker menu, select **Dashboard** > **Dev Environments**.

![Dev environment intro](/images/dev-env-create.png){:width="700px"}

## Prerequisites

Dev Environments are available as part of Docker Desktop 3.5.0 release. Download and install **Docker Desktop 3.5.0** or higher:

- [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/release-notes/)
- [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/release-notes/)

To get started with Dev Environments, you must have the following tools and extension installed on your machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}
- [Visual Studio Code Remote Containers Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}

Click **Install** to download and install any missing tools.

### Add Git to your PATH on Windows

If you have already installed Git, and it's not detected properly, run the following command to check whether you can use Git with the CLI or PowerShell:

`$ git --version`

If it doesn't detect Git as a valid command, you must reinstall Git and ensure you choose the option  **Git from the command line...** or the **Use Git and optional Unix tools...**  on the **Adjusting your PATH environment**  step.

![Windows add Git to path](/images/dev-env-gitbash.png){:width="300px"}

## Start a single container Dev Environment

The simplest way to get started with Dev Environments is to create a new environment by cloning the Git repository of the project you are working on. For example, let us create a new Dev Environment using a simple `single-dev-env` project from the [Docker Samples](https://github.com/dockersamples/single-dev-env){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

> **Note**
>
> When cloning a Git repository using SSH, ensure you've added your SSH key to the ssh-agent. To do this, open a terminal and run `ssh-add <path to your private ssh key>`.

1. First, let's click **Create New Environment** to open the create dialog box. Then copy `git@github.com:dockersamples/single-dev-env.git` and add it to the Repository URL field.
2. Now, click **Create**.

    This clones the Git code inside a volume, determines the best image for your Dev Environment, and finally, opens VS Code inside the Dev Environment container.

![Single container Dev environment](/images/dev-env-container.png){:width="700px"}

In the above example, the names `amazing_mclaren` and `stoic_carver` are randomly generated. You'll most likely see different names when you create your Dev Environment.

Hover over the container and click **Open in VS Code** to start working in VS Code as usual. You can also open a terminal in VS Code, and use Git to push or pull code to your repository, or switch between branches and work as you would normally.

You can launch the application by running the command `make run` in your VS Code terminal. This opens an http server on port 8080. Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser to see the running application.

![Single container Dev environment](/images/dev-env-localhost.png){:width="700px"}

### Create a Dev Environment from a specific branch or tag

You can create a dev environment from a specific branch (for example, a branch corresponding to a Pull Request) or a tag by adding `@mybranch` or `@tag` as a suffix to your Git URL:

 `https://github.com/dockersamples/single-dev-env@mybranch`

 or

 `git@github.com:dockersamples/single-dev-env.git@mybranch`

Docker then clones the repository with your specified branch or tag.

> **Note**
>
> Known issue: With versions prior Desktop 3.6.0, when cloning a Git branch using `https://`, you must remove the `.git` suffix at the end of the URL.

### Recap

Let's summarize the tasks we performed so far to start a single container Dev Environment.

1. First, we cloned a Git repository in a container using Git credentials. Note that this did not conflict with any of the local files on your host.
2. The Go tools required for our sample project was set up automatically for us. Also, this did not cause any friction with our local tooling setup.
3. Finally, we were able to run the application server inside a container using the VS Code terminal and access it automatically from the host.

## Share your Dev Environment

If you are a member of the Docker [Team plan](https://www.docker.com/pricing?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs_driven_upgrade){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}, you can now share you Dev Environment with your team. When you are ready to share your environment, just click the **Share** button and specify the Docker Hub namespace where you'd like to push your Dev Environment to.

![Share a Dev environment](/images/dev-env-share.png){:width="700px"}

This creates a Docker image of your dev environment, uploads it to the Docker Hub namespace you have specified in the previous step, and provides a tiny URL which you can use to share your work with your team members.

![Dev environment shared](/images/dev-env-shared.png){:width="700px"}

Your team members just need to open the **Create** Dialog, go to **Existing Dev Environment** tab, and paste this URL. Your Dev Environment now starts in the exact same state as you shared it!

Using this shared Dev Environment, your team members can access the code, any dependencies, and the current Git branch you are working on. They can also review your changes and provide feedback even before you create a pull request!

## Start a sample Compose Dev Environment

You can also use Dev Environments to collaborate on any Docker Compose-based projects. For example, let's use the `compose-dev-env` project from the [Docker Samples](https://github.com/dockersamples/compose-dev-env){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

  > **Note**
  >
  > When cloning a Git repository using SSH, ensure you've added your SSH key to the ssh-agent. To do this, open a terminal and run `ssh-add <path to your private ssh key>`.

1. Click **Create** to open the create dialog box. Then copy `git@github.com:dockersamples/compose-dev-env.git` and add it to the Repository URL field.
2. Click **Create**. This initializes the project and clones the Git code and builds the Compose application. This:

    - Builds local images for services that are defined in the Compose file
    - Pulls images required for other services
    - Creates volumes and networks
    - Starts the Compose stack

![Compose Dev environment](/images/dev-env-compose.png){:width="700px"}

Now your application is up and running, you can check by opening [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser.

The time taken to start the Compose application depends on how your application is configured, whether the images have been built, and the number of services you have defined, etc.

You'll also notice that VS Code doesn't open directly (unlike the single container Dev Environment) as there are multiple services configured. You can hover over a service and then click on the **Open in VS Code** button to open a specific service in Visual Studio Code. This stops the existing container and creates a new container which allows you to develop and update your service in VS Code.

You can now update your service and test it against your Compose application.

## Set up your own Compose Dev Environment

In the previous section, we've learnt how to start a sample Compose Dev Environment. To set up a Dev Environment for your own Compose-based project, you'll need some extra configuration that tells Docker Desktop how to build, start, and use the right Dev Environment image for your services.

Dev Environments use an additional `docker-compose.yaml` file located in the `.docker` directory at the root of your project. This file allows you to define the image required for a dedicated service, the ports you'd like to expose, along with additional configuration options dedicated to Dev Environments coming in the future.

Let's take a detailed look at the `docker-compose.yaml` file we used in the [compose-dev-env](https://github.com/dockersamples/compose-dev-env/blob/main/.docker/docker-compose.yaml){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} sample project.

```yaml
version: "3.7"
services:
  backend:
    build:
      context: backend
      target: development
    secrets:
      - db-password
    depends_on:
      - db
  db:
    image: mariadb
    restart: always
    healthcheck:
      test: [ "CMD", "mysqladmin", "ping", "-h", "127.0.0.1", "--silent" ]
      interval: 3s
      retries: 5
      start_period: 30s
    secrets:
      - db-password
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/mysql
    environment:
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=example
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD_FILE=/run/secrets/db-password
    expose:
      - 3306
  proxy:
    build: proxy
    ports:
      - 8080:80
    depends_on:
      - backend
volumes:
  db-data:
secrets:
  db-password:
    file: db/password.txt
```

In the above yaml file, the build context `backend` specifies that that the container should be built using the `development` stage (`target` attribute) of the Dockerfile located in the `backend` directory (`context` attribute)

The `development` stage of the Dockerfile is defined as follows:

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.16-alpine AS build
WORKDIR /go/src/github.com/org/repo
COPY . .

RUN go build -o server .

FROM build AS development
RUN apk update \
    && apk add git
CMD ["go", "run", "main.go"]

FROM alpine:3.12
EXPOSE 8000
COPY --from=build /go/src/github.com/org/repo/server /server
CMD ["/server"]
```

The `development`target uses a `golang:1.16-alpine` image with all dependencies you need for development. You can start your project directly from VS Code and interact with the others applications or services such as the database or the frontend.

In our example, the Docker Compose files are the same. However, they could be different and the services defined in the main Compose file may use other targets to build or directly reference other images.

## Specify a base image

In this preview, Dev Environments support a simple YAML file which allows you to specify the base image that you would like to use as part of your Dev Environment. You must include this as part of the `.docker` folder and then add it as a `config.json` file. For example, to use the Jekyll base image, add:

```jsx
{
  "image": "jekyll/jekyll"
}
```

> **Note**
>
> This configuration is to unblock users for the Preview release only. We may move this configuration for single and multi-container applications to a Compose-based implementation in future releases.
>
> To get involved with the discussion on how we are going to implement this as part of Compose, join the **#docker-dev-environments** channel in the [Docker Community Slack](https://dockercommunity.slack.com/messages){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}, or let us know your feedback by creating an issue in the [Dev Environments](https://github.com/docker/dev-environments/issues){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

## Known issues

The following section lists known issues and workarounds in the Dev Environments Preview:

1. It is currently not possible to share Compose-based applications using Dev Environments because registries do not support Compose applications. Refer to the [Feedback](#feedback) section to let us know your requirements for sharing Compose-based applications.
2. When sharing a Dev Environment between Mac and Windows, the VS Code terminal may not function correctly in some cases. To work around this issue, use the Exec in CLI option in the Docker Dashboard.
3. When sharing a Dev Environment between ARM64 and AMD64 machines, the environment will be emulated.

## Feedback

We are excited that you are trying out our Dev Environments Preview. We would love to hear from you.

You can let us know your feedback by creating an issue in the [Dev Environments](https://github.com/docker/dev-environments/issues){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository. Alternatively, get in touch with us on the **#docker-dev-environments** channel in the [Docker Community Slack](https://dockercommunity.slack.com/messages){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}.
